Republicans begin roll call vote to nominate Trump.

Cleveland (AFP) – The Republican National Convention began the state-by-state roll call vote on Tuesday that will culminate in delegates formally nominating billionaire Donald Trump for president.

The real estate magnate was expected to cruise past the 1,237 delegates needed to seal the deal on the first ballot and, if he follows tradition, Trump will officially accept the nomination Thursday during his acceptance speech.

But it was not expected to be the smoothest of votes.

“The great state of Alabama… is proud to cast its votes: one vote for Marco Rubio, 13 for Ted Cruz, and 36 votes for the next president of the United States, Donald J. Trump!” US Senator Jeff Sessions said as he launched the process.

Minutes after the voting began, Colorado’s delegation chairman announced four votes for Trump, 31 for Senator Ted Cruz and two abstentions, a result which drew murmurs from the assembled delegates.

Anti-Trump forces on the floor were holding out for a final miracle Tuesday, after seeking to convince delegates that their votes were not bound and that they could vote their conscience.

“Maintaining order for the roll call is extremely important,” House Speaker Paul Ryan, the convention chair, told the delegates before the vote.

The Republican convention got off to a rocky start Monday, when chaos broke out on the floor as anti-Trump delegates launched a short-lived revolt.

The candidate’s glamorous wife Melania Trump brought some pizzazz to the proceedings on the opening night as the Trump team sought to get the event back on track.

But an embarrassing plagiarism scandal tarnished her prime-time speech — and brought her husband’s presidential campaign under withering scrutiny.

– ‘Who cares?’ –.

With millions watching on television, the Slovenia-born former model delivered a seemingly heartfelt defense of her husband.

“Donald is, and always has been, an amazing leader,” said the 46-year-old. “Now, he will go to work for you.”

But there were unmistakable similarities between her remarks and a speech given by Michelle Obama at the 2008 Democratic convention.

While the controversy burned and social media erupted with mocking commentary, the Trump team appeared paralyzed.

Denials of wrongdoing, followed by tacit admissions, followed by attempts to insulate Melania only added to the picture of a campaign in chaos.

Campaign chair Paul Manafort dismissed the whole kerfuffle as “absurd.” Trump’s supporters seemed equally unperturbed.

“There’s just a passion for Donald, and his wife knocked it out of the park,” said Robert Antonacci of the New York delegation.

“Who cares? It was her speech. I don’t believe for a minute that Melania and Donald were sitting around going, ‘Hey, let’s plagiarize Michelle Obama’s speech’.”

Republican establishment figures — whose party was once respected for its discipline and public unity — both suggested Melania’s speechwriter be fired and defended Trump as a candidate.

“The distraction gets you off message a little,” said Republican party boss Reince Priebus, though he added that he expected the flap to fade quickly.

– Old hands –.

The conventions are designed to champion the party candidate, rally the grassroots and propel the party toward November’s election.

As the convention resumed Tuesday, Republican leaders in the Senate and the House of Representatives looked to stop the bleeding — led by keynote speakers Ryan and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell.

More than most, the pair have been responsible for holding the Republican Party together as populist Tea Party conservatives gained clout.

They were due to stick to issues that most Republicans can agree on — opposition to Hillary Clinton, a tough line on anti-terrorism and supporting the military and police.

But they now find themselves atop a party that has shifted to the right and with a candidate who many party members strongly oppose.

“This is just a scripted television show and we are all props,” said Virginia delegate Beau Correll, angered that party leaders ignored the movement to free delegates to vote their conscience.

Trump fans insist delegates must heed the will of the grassroots of the party and make him the Republican nominee without equivocation.

The real estate mogul won a thumping victory in a series of statewide party elections, garnering more than 13 million votes — the most of any Republican nominee ever.

Tuesday’s speakers also include two of Trump’s children, including his daughter Tiffany, who has until now been rarely seen on the campaign trail.

Trump himself is due to address the convention on Thursday, at which time he will formally accept the party’s nomination.