OK Gov Fallin: Trump Is ‘Trying To Campaign As A Racial Healer,’ ‘That Has Been Part of His Message.’

Sunday, on CNN’s “State of the Union,” while commenting on the racial divide in America highlighted by the recent police shootings in Louisiana and Minnesota and a sniper targeting and killing five Dallas police officers, Governor Mary Fallin (R-OK) said presumptive Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump is “trying to campaign as a racial healer.”

Partial transcript as follows:

JAKE TAPPER: Donald Trump released a video on Friday talking about racial healing. Take a listen.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP.)

TRUMP: The deaths of Alton Sterling in Louisiana and Philando Castile in Minnesota, also make clear how much more work we have to do to make every American feel that their safety is protected. Racial divisions have gotten worse, not better.

(END VIDEO CLIP.)

TAPPER: And obviously, you’re supporting Donald Trump, I think there are probably some skeptical Americans hearing that message from Mr. Trump about healing the racial divides.

Specifically I’ve heard from a number of Latino-Americans, Muslim-Americans, Native Americans, Jewish-Americans, African-Americans, all expressing concern about some of the things that Donald Trump has said. Talk to them. How do you think he will be able to be a racial healer?

FALLIN: Well, I think the whole nation needs to work together, and certainly as anyone that’s a nominee, whether it is Donald Trump, whether it is Secretary Clinton, we all need to work towards unity as a nation, and understand that, people are scared. They want safe homes. They want safe streets. They want safe communities. They want — they don’t want to be profiled. They don’t want to be discriminated against. Everyone wants to be treated equal, with equal justice for all. And I think that’s the message that any candidate running for president should have.

….

TAPPER: Do you think Donald Trump has campaigned as a racial healer?

FALLIN: I think he is trying to campaign as a racial healer. I think that has been part of his message. If you watch what he said this week, he talked about how devastating it was for Dallas, how we need to respect our law enforcement, how we need to pray for those who are killed and those who are injured. And I think that is his intent. I trust him with his words, and I think we all need to move towards being compassionate, loving, healing, but yet, also, respecting our law enforcement.

Follow Pam Key On Twitter @pamkeyNEN.