Liberal Oscar-winner Sarandon ‘not sure’ about Clinton over Trump.

New York (AFP) – Oscar-winning actress Susan Sarandon, star of cult classic “Thelma and Louise,” is not sure she can vote for Hillary Clinton over Donald Trump, the Republican frontrunner who has inflamed America with divisive rhetoric.

The prominent actress is a high-profile campaigner for leftist Senator Bernie Sanders, who faces a near impossible task in trying to wrest the Democratic nomination from frontrunner Clinton.

“That’s a legitimate concern, because they’re very passionate and very principled,” Sarandon, 69, told MSNBC Monday when asked about concerns that Sanders’s supporters would not support Clinton if he loses the nomination.

“I think Bernie would probably encourage people (to back Clinton if he lost) because he doesn’t have any ego in this thing,” she said. “But I think a lot of people are, ‘Sorry, I just can’t bring myself to do that.’”

Asked about her own vote in the event that Clinton faces Republican frontrunner Trump, who has insulted women, Mexicans and Muslims in a volatile campaign, she replied: “I don’t know. I’m going to see what happens.”

“Really,” she added when the TV interviewer expressed shock.

The actress said she was tired of the status quo and wanted a candidate who had not accepted money from the fracking industry, pharmaceutical giants or Wall Street.

She appeared to imply that Trump, a political outsider, could ultimately lead to more radical upheaval than Clinton, the 68-year-old former secretary of state bidding to make history as America’s first female president.

“Some people feel Trump will bring revolution immediately,” she said. “If he gets in, then things will really explode,” she said.

Sarandon is one of a clutch of celebrity supporters of Sanders. Others include film star Danny DeVito and singer Bette Midler. Clinton has a galaxy of famous supporters in her corner.

Former US secretary of state Madeleine Albright, a Clinton supporter, fanned controversy earlier this year over her remark that “there’s a special place in hell for women who don’t help each other.”

A Qunnipiac University poll found last week that Clinton would beat Trump 46 to 40 percent in a general election match-up, while Sanders would hypothetically beat the New York businessman 52 to 38 percent.