The Latest: Sanders declares ‘revolution,’ ignores losses.

WASHINGTON (AP) — The Latest on the 2016 presidential campaign, with primaries in five states Tuesday and Republican front-runner Donald Trump trying to move closer to nailing down his party’s nomination (all times Eastern Standard Time):

9:42 p.m.

Bernie Sanders was handed three early defeats on Tuesday — but his speech carried little mention of them.

Sanders lost Ohio, Florida and North Carolina to Democratic rival Hillary Clinton, who added to her delegate lead. But, in a speech to supporters in Phoenix, he barely discussed those contests or the day’s races in Illinois or Missouri that have not been called.

Sanders instead delivered his standard campaign speech, decrying the influence of big money in politics. He vowed that “billionaires would have to pay their fair share.”

The Vermont senator has struggled to win the south, instead claiming some victories in the Midwest.

___.

9:40 p.m.

Marco Rubio exits the presidential race having won 163 delegates to the Republican National Convention this summer.

The vast majority of those delegates will be sought-after free agents, free to support the candidate of their choice — unless Rubio tries to resurrect his campaign at a contested convention.

GOP rules require delegates to vote for the candidate who won them on the first ballot at the convention. However, most state parties release those delegates if their candidate is no longer running.

If Rubio jumps back in the race, he keeps his delegates.

Rubio can ask them to support another candidate, but they don’t have to.

___.

9:35 p.m.

Ted Cruz says his “friend and colleague” Marco Rubio ran “an optimistic campaign focused on the future of our party.”

In a statement released shortly after the Florida senator suspended his presidential campaign, Cruz said he’s certain Rubio will continue to be “a champion for limitless opportunity in America.”

Cruz lost Tuesday’s major winner-take-all contests — in Florida to Donald Trump and Ohio to the state’s governor, John Kasich.

But his campaign was still hoping to pick up delegates in states that award delegates proportionally: Missouri, Illinois and North Carolina.

Cruz has said for weeks he’s the only candidate in the field who can beat Trump one-on-one.

___.

9:30 p.m.

John Kasich says he won’t take the “low road” in his party’s divisive presidential primary after a home-state win in Ohio.

The Ohio governor beat back a challenge from Donald Trump in a home-state election Tuesday that keeps Kasich’s underdog campaign alive. He’s one of just three candidates left in the race after rival Marco Rubio dropped out of the race earlier Tuesday.

“The campaign goes on,” Kasich told a crowd in Berea, Ohio Tuesday night.

Kasich’s speech was interrupted by a protester wearing clothes with Trump’s campaign logo — “Make America Great Again.

To that, Kasich joked that he appreciates a good, “peaceful protest every once in a while” since he went to college in the 1970’s.

___.

9:15 p.m.

By winning the Republican primary in Ohio, John Kasich picked up all 66 of the state’s delegates to the Republican National Convention.

Now all he has to do is win 91 percent of the remaining delegates and he can clinch the nomination before the convention this summer.

Marco Rubio has more delegates than Kasich has, and the Florida senator suspended his campaign Tuesday night.

Donald Trump still leads the race for delegates, with 568. Ted Cruz has 370 delegates, Kasich has 129 and Rubio left the race with 163.

It takes 1,237 delegates to win the Republican nomination for president.

___.

9:05 p.m.

Hillary Clinton says a president must be ready to “start making decisions” immediately upon assuming office since it’s a job that will affect every person on the planet.

Clinton, a Democrat, did not mention Republican front-runner Donald Trump by name. But she said Tuesday that any president would have to keep the country safe, make “positive changes” in people’s lives and unite the country.

Clinton has repeatedly accused Trump of using divisive rhetoric. She also called for all candidates to lay out specifics — including the cost — of their plans, something she has repeatedly asked of her Democratic rival Bernie Sanders.

Clinton has won at least three state primaries on Tuesday: Florida, Ohio and North Carolina. And she has widened her delegate lead over rival Bernie Sanders.

___.

9:00 p.m.

Hillary Clinton is declaring that she is moving closer to the Democratic nomination after three early states wins on Tuesday.

Clinton won the presidential primaries in Florida, Ohio and North Carolina, widening her significant delegate lead over rival Bernie Sanders.

Clinton celebrated in Florida with supporters, declaring it “another super Tuesday for our campaign” and said it was another step closer to winning the White House.

___.

8:55 p.m.

The delegate lead for Hillary Clinton continues to grow thanks to a big win in North Carolina.

With 107 delegates at stake, she will win at least 56. Sanders will gain at least 24.

That means for the night Clinton has earned at least 175 delegates so far, having also won Florida. Sanders will win at least 73.

In all, 691 delegates are up for grabs in five states.

Including superdelegates, the lead is bigger. Clinton now has a total of at least 1,410, while Sanders has at least 653. It takes 2,383 to win.

Still to come: results in Ohio, Missouri and Illinois.

___.

8:50 p.m.

Ohio Gov. John Kasich scored his first win of the presidential nomination contest, grabbing all 66 delegates in the Ohio primary, in what could ultimately stall Donald Trump’s decisive dash to the nomination.

Kasich entered the GOP presidential race as an underdog but surged to prominence after he secured second place in New Hampshire’s primary last month.

Steering clear of the boisterous, often belligerent rhetoric exchanged by his GOP rivals, Kasich has sought to distinguish himself as the candidate with a positive message. He avoided direct criticism of front-runner Trump until recent days, when he expressed concern that the billionaire businessman was encouraging violence at his rallies.

Kasich remains in last place among the GOP contenders. He had been in fourth place, trailing Marco Rubio, who ended his campaign earlier Tuesday after a humiliating loss to Trump in his home state of Florida.

___.

8:45 p.m.

Marco Rubio spoke over boos from the audience as he congratulated Florida primary winner Donald Trump. Rubio offered the crowd an emotional evaluation on the state of politics in the United States Tuesday as he ended his bid for the White House.

The Florida senator sought to calm his supporters, and took a heckler in stride, saying the person would “not get beat up” at his rally, a swipe at the recent disturbances at some of Trump’s rallies.

He said that he would offer “a prayer” for the eventual Republican nominee but did not suggest it would be Trump, who has a significant delegate lead over Ted Cruz and John Kasich. He has waffled of late as to whether he would support Trump if the celebrity businessman became the Republican standard-bearer.

Rubio also bemoaned the current political climate in which people “literally hate each other” because they differ politically.

___.

8:40 p.m.

Hillary Clinton has won the Democratic presidential primary in Ohio, earning her third win in Tuesday’s quintet of contests.

Clinton already scored victories in Florida and North Carolina, earning 175 additional delegates before winning Ohio.

Contests in Missouri and Illinois have not yet been decided.

___.

8:35 p.m.

The delegate lead for Hillary Clinton continues to grow thanks to a big win in North Carolina.

With 107 delegates at stake, she will win at least 56. Sanders will gain at least 24.

That means for the night Clinton has earned at least 175 delegates so far, having also won Florida. Sanders will win at least 73.

In all, 691 delegates are up for grabs in five states.

Including superdelegates, the lead is bigger. Clinton now has a total of at least 1,410, while Sanders has at least 653. It takes 2,383 to win.

Still to come: results in Ohio, Missouri and Illinois.

___.

8:20 p.m.

Republican Marco Rubio is ending his campaign for the Republican nomination for president after a humiliating loss in his home state of Florida.

Rubio told a crowd in Miami Tuesday that he knows that voters are angry and that there is a hunger for new faces and voices in government.

Rubio’s decision was prompted by losses in all but three of the presidential nomination contests but Florida’s winner-take-all primary proved the most devastating. Only six years earlier, he was a tea party favorite who crushed the GOP’s “establishment” candidate to win a seat in the U.S. Senate.

But the political tables turned on the Florida senator as a 2016 presidential candidate who was lambasted as mainstream in a year when voters cried out for an outsider.

___.

8:15 p.m.

Hillary Clinton wins the Democratic presidential primary in North Carolina, adding to her run of victories in the South over rival Bernie Sanders.

Clinton’s win in North Carolina was her second victory on Tuesday, following a triumph in Florida.

She has dominated Sanders in the South, previously capturing wins in South Carolina, Alabama, Arkansas, Georgia, Louisiana and Tennessee.

Clinton has a significant delegate lead over Sanders, who has turned in stronger showings in the Midwest and other Western states.

North Carolina will also be considered a key battleground state in the general election. President Barack Obama won the state in 2008 but lost it to Mitt Romney four years later.

___.

8:08 p.m.

Donald Trump’s big win in the Florida primary is helping him stretch his lead in the race for delegates.

Trump picked up all 99 delegates in Florida.

He now has 568. Ted Cruz has 370 delegates, Marco Rubio has 163 and John Kasich has 63.

It takes 1,237 delegates to win the Republican nomination for president.

___.

8:06 p.m.

Hillary Clinton is widening her overall delegate lead with an early win in Florida.

The Sunshine State is Democrats’ biggest delegate prize of the night.

With 214 delegates at stake, Clinton is assured of winning at least 118. Sanders will pick up at least 45.

In all, 691 delegates are up for grabs Tuesday in five states.

Going into Tuesday’s contests, Clinton already held a 214-delegate advantage based just on wins from primaries and caucuses.

When including superdelegates, the lead is even larger. Clinton now has a total of at least 1,353, while Sanders has at least 625. It takes 2,383 to win.

The other states voting Tuesday are North Carolina, Ohio, Missouri and Illinois.

___.

8:05 p.m.

Donald Trump is once again breaking with tradition, holding an election night press conference in Florida instead of a typical victory party.

The media gathered at Trump’s sprawling Mar-a-Lago club in West Palm Beach Tuesday in a large ballroom filled with more than a dozen crystal chandeliers, gilded walls and ceilings with small cherubs overhead.

Trump clinched Florida’s 99 winner-take-all primary, beating rival Marco Rubio in his home state.

Reporters will be sitting in the last two rows of chairs, with 16 rows reserved in front of them. During past Trump election press conferences, members of Trump’s golf clubs and other friends have filled the front seats.

Meanwhile, Trump’s official campaign account has been busy, re-tweeting several negative comments about Fox News host Megyn Kelly’s election coverage.

___.

8:00 p.m.

Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton have won the presidential primary in Florida, further solidifying their leads in the hotly contested race for the Republican and Democratic nominations.

For Trump, the Republican front-runner, Florida’s all-or-nothing contest represents a momentous win, giving him 99 additional delegates — the largest in the quintet of contests taking place Tuesday. His victory deals a devastating blow to Florida Sen. Marco Rubio, who many in the Republican establishment had backed in the hope of derailing Trump’s dash to the nomination.

Clinton will be awarded delegates proportionally in keeping with Democratic regulations, but the win still catapults her ahead of rival Bernie Sanders, who came into Tuesday’s contests with fresh momentum after scoring big in Michigan last week.

___.

5:15 p.m.

About two-thirds of Republican primary voters in all five states voting Tuesday support temporarily banning non-citizen Muslims from entering the United States, but majorities in all five say they want immigrants already in the United States illegally to be allowed a chance to stay.

That’s according to early results of exit polls conducted for the Associated Press and television networks for Edison Research.

Only about 4 in 10 Republican voters in each state want all immigrants in the country illegally to be deported.

The proportion of GOP primary voters saying they want a ban on non-citizen Muslims entering the United States is as high as three-quarters in Missouri.
