Trump fever infects convention finale.

Cleveland (AFP) – The Trump troops embraced their newly crowned Republican presidential nominee, clogging the convention floor to roar their approval, swat away talk of party division, and vent their collective disgust of Democrat Hillary Clinton.

Trump’s acceptance speech Thursday night was the moment thousands in the Cleveland arena were waiting for, and the brash billionaire did not disappoint.

Cheers erupted when he strode across the stage to face his flock, soaking up the lengthy standing ovation from a crowd that hardly expected such a result 14 months ago when Trump launched his underdog White House bid.

One thousand supporters snapped his picture in unison, while a delegate in a pink elephant-print shirt climbed atop her chair for a better view.

“This is fantastic!” beamed Donald Hartley of Madison, Alabama, who snuck onto the floor from the guest seats to be closer to the action.

While Trump laid out his vision for America, the crowd reacted much the way they did at his campaign rallies: loudly and impulsively.

Despite the week’s turmoil over the Trump nomination, Thursday night was a one-sided affair, and several delegates cheerfully sought to put to rest the assertions that Republicans were in disarray.

“I’m telling you, this party is not divided, the voters are not divided, and Trump is going to continue to gain strength and he’s going to win this election,” Senator Jeff Sessions, a close advisor to Trump, told AFP.

House Republican Thomas Massie used to support fellow Kentuckian Rand Paul, but now said Trump had “the opportunity and the obligation to bring us together.”

“I think he can do that, but the biggest unifier we got is Hillary Clinton.”

Boos rained down when Trump mentioned the former secretary of state, and at one point the crowd loudly reprised the caustic chant “Lock her up! Lock her up!” that ricocheted through the arena throughout the week.

Trump gestured as if to stop the ruckus, then leaned in and boomed: “Let’s defeat her in November.”

Clinton made an appearance of sorts, courtesy of Wes Nakagiri, a delegate from Michigan who dressed up in a prison outfit, plastic handcuffs and rubber Hillary mask.

“I heard ‘Lock her up’ last night and thought it would be funny if I went out and bought an orange prison jump suit,” he said.

Trump spoke for 77 minutes, a virtual eternity as far as conventions go, and supporters started to flag. Several waved their mangled-Spanish “Hispanics para Trump” signs from their seats.

– ‘We’re alive’ –.

Trump’s night wouldn’t be complete without a disruption, and it faithfully arrived in the form of a protest by the group Code Pink.

The protester yelled and held up a banner that was quickly ripped away, but she disrupted proceedings for more than a minute before cops managed to drag her out.

Christopher Harvey, an African-American delegate from Houston, Texas, said the turmoil at this week’s convention was all part of the circus that is American politics.

“We show anger, we show emotion,” said Harvey, who acknowledged Trump was his fourth choice for nominee, behind arch-conservative Rick Santorum, Senator Marco Rubio, and Senator Ted Cruz.

“We’re alive, unlike the robots you’re going to see next week” at the Democratic convention, he said.

When Trump finally wrapped up — “I will fight for you, and I will win for you!” — the balloons cascaded down on the crowd.

The music seemed to match the sense of relief in the arena as the rock classic “All Right Now,” by the band Free, blared from the speakers.

Not everyone was claiming success.

“We’ve had more successful conventions than this one,” Texas delegate Bill Eastland, wearing a cowboy hat and “Ted Cruz” campaign pins, said matter-of-factly as confetti fluttered down around him amid the sound of popping balloons underfoot.

Minnesota state delegate Mary Susan, clad in a red cape with blinking lights that formed the name Trump, said the convention could be a “failure” if Trump can’t rally the broad coalition of Republicans in the coming months.

Her liberal friends have mocked Trump’s rhetoric-heavy campaign, calling Trump “an orange buffoon,” Susan said as she turned around and spread her cape.

“But he’s our orange buffoon, and we love him!”