The Latest: 3 NH towns cast first votes of primary.

MANCHESTER, N.H. (AP) — The Latest on the race for the White House with one day to go until the New Hampshire primary (all times local):

___.

3:40 p.m.

The first votes of the first-in-the-nation primary will be counted Tuesday in three tiny communities where primary day lasts all of five minutes: Hart, Millsfield and the most famous, Dixville notch.

They all qualify to hold midnight votes under a New Hampshire law that allows communities with fewer than 100 voters can get permission to open their polls at the stroke of primary day and close them as soon as all registered voters have cast their ballots.

It shouldn’t take long.

Dixville, which exists as a town only for voting purposes, has nine voters.

Hart, about 80 miles south, has 41 registered voters.

Millsfield, home to 22 registered voters, also is making a comeback this year, though it’s unclear just when the town last voted at midnight or when its tradition started.

___.

3:19 p.m.

Presidential candidate Marco Rubio’s campaign says two dozen of Sen. Rand Paul’s Kentucky supporters in the state legislature are endorsing Rubio.

Paul ended his presidential campaign last week after a poor showing in the Iowa caucuses and will instead focus on his Senate re-election.

The new Rubio supporters include state Rep. Jeff Hoover, the top Republican in the Kentucky House, and state Sen. Ralph Alvarado, who introduced Paul at his presidential campaign kickoff rally last year.

___.

2:25 p.m.

Hillary Clinton says rival Bernie Sanders accepted about $200,000 in indirect donations from Wall Street and “there’s nothing wrong with that” — asserting that big donations from the financial industry it didn’t change his views on public policy, and they don’t change hers.

Sanders has cast the Clintons as part of the Democratic establishment during the primaries and holds a solid lead against the former secretary of state in Tuesday’s first-in-the-nation primary. He has criticized Clinton for accepting campaign donations and speaking fees from Wall Street firms.

Clinton was joined by her husband, former President Bill Clinton, and daughter Chelsea Clinton on Monday in an all-hands-on-deck day of campaigning on the eve of the New Hampshire primary.

___.

2:08 p.m.

There’s no mistaking Marco Rubio’s new enemy No. 1 in New Hampshire: Jeb Bush.

That’s the takeaway from freshly filed Federal Election Commission reports that track last-minute spending before the New Hampshire primary on Tuesday.

The reports show Conservative Solutions PAC, an outside group spending tens of millions of dollars boosting Rubio, made a major change in its advertising plans after Rubio’s disappointing debate performance on Saturday.

The super PAC replaced more than $500,000 worth of planned New Hampshire ads supporting Rubio and attacking Iowa winner Ted Cruz with commercials exclusively opposing Bush, the reports show. The group is also now spending money on mailings to voters that oppose both Bush and Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton, according to FEC filings.

___.

2:00 p.m.

Bernie Sanders is drawing animated crowds in the final hours before voting begins in New Hampshire.

One man in Manchester, responding to Sanders’ description of the Bush administration’s role in the economic recession, interrupted the candidate:

“They stole the country,” the man shouted, using an expletive to describe the Bush administration.

“Well, I wouldn’t phrase it exactly like that but it’s close to true,” replied Sanders.

___.

1:26 p.m.

Republican Sen. John McCain says the “loose talk” in the presidential campaign about reviving waterboarding and other interrogation methods skips over the fact that the technique failed to obtain lifesaving intelligence.

The Arizona Republican survived 5 ½ years in a Vietnamese prison and says such techniques are inhumane and compromise the nation’s values.

McCain, the GOP’s presidential nominee in 2008, issued a statement after Republican contender Donald Trump told a town hall in Salem, New Hampshire on Monday that waterboarding is “peanuts,” compared to what Islamic State militants are doing. “It’s fine,” Trump said of waterboarding. “And much tougher than that is fine. When we’re dealing with these animals we can’t be soft and weak like our politicians.”

Trump isn’t saying what other interrogation techniques he would support.

President Barack Obama banned waterboarding when he took office in January 2009.

___.

1:18 p.m.

Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump is spending the final day of the New Hampshire primary attacking a rival who is far behind him in the polls: former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush.

Speaking at a town hall event in Salem, New Hampshire, Trump went after Bush, calling him “a total stiff.”

He says, “Here’s a guy, honestly, if he weren’t in government…you wouldn’t hire him to do anything.”

He adds that Bush is “like a spoiled child” and “not a smart man” because he’s in favor of the common core education standards.

Later, in front of the Manchester Rotary Club at Fratello’s Italian Grille, Trump said Bush is “not smart enough to win” — and more.

For his part, Bush tweeted Monday that Trump is a “loser,” a “liar” and a “whiner.”

___.

1:05 p.m.

On a snowy final day of campaigning in New Hampshire, John Kasich is reflecting on lessons from his parents’ death in 1987 and his short-lived presidential campaign in 1999.

Kasich is telling a packed crowd in snowy Windham, New Hampshire, on the primary battle’s final campaign day that he has few memories from his 1999 bid aside from talking to a voter for 20 minutes only to have her ask, “When is the candidate going to arrive?”

This campaign, he says, is different.

Kasich has taken to urging voters to slow down in their everyday lives and spend more time listening to their families and neighbors. Kasich’s parents died in a car crash in 1987, and he says going through a dark time has allowed him to better connect with people who are struggling in their everyday lives.

He says,” there are a lot of people who never get listened to.”

___.

12:40 p.m.

A woman who attending a town hall for New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie has a curt replay to the recent discussion on the presidential campaign trail about special places in hell for certain women.

Former Secretary of State Madeleine Albright recently urged women to vote for Hillary Clinton, saying, “There’s a special place in hell for women who don’t help each other.”

At the town hall meeting for in Hudson, New Hampshire Monday, the Christie supporter retorted: “There is a special place in hell for women who vote for women just because they’re women.”

___.

12:30 p.m.

Hillary Clinton is telling customers at a popular Manchester, New Hampshire, breakfast spot that “I need you tomorrow.”

Making her way around Chez Vachon, Clinton and husband Bill, thanked another diner for wearing one of her campaign buttons. She says, “With your help, we can do it.”

The Clintons have visited the restaurant before and photos of them are on the walls.

___.

12:15 p.m.

Chris Christie got a heated reception outside a Hampstead, New Hampshire, coffee shop, where some his New Jersey critics waited in the snow to heckle him.

Holding signs calling Christie “New Jersey’s Biggest Loser,” the protesters chanted “Chris Christie: Bad for New Jersey, bad for you.”

Christie slipped in a back door to avoid them. He said he loved hearing from some of his “favorite Democrats” because it fires him up.

___.

12:00 p.m.

Democratic presidential candidate Bernie Sanders is choosing not to respond to recent Clinton campaign accusations that his backers are waging “profane” and “sexist” attacks on the former secretary of state.

Instead, the Vermont senator is sticking to his campaign message, hoping to avoid any misstep that could undermine his sizeable New Hampshire lead just a day before voters head to the polls.

“We have come a long way in the last nine months,” he told cheering supporters in Nashua, N.H. on Monday morning.

He added: “There is nothing, nothing, nothing that we cannot accomplish.”

On Sunday, former President Bill Clinton said Clinton supporters were being subject to “vicious trolling and attack” online. Sanders’ aides say their campaign has no desire to engage in an extended back-and-forth over the issue.

Sanders  has denounced supporters that level sexist attacks, saying his campaign doesn’t want “that crap,” in an interview with CNN on Sunday.

___.

11:35 a.m.

Republican Donald Trump is doubling down on his support for intensifying interrogation techniques for some foreign prisoners. Trump said during this week’s GOP debate that he is in favor of bringing back waterboarding and “a hell of a lot worse.”

He’s not saying what other techniques he’d support.

Trump is telling a town hall in Salem that waterboarding is “peanuts,” compared to what Islamic State militants are doing. “It’s fine,” Trump says of waterboarding. “And much tougher than that is fine. When we’re dealing with these animals we can’t be soft and weak like our politicians.”

He says the country’s enemies are “laughing like hell at the United States” for even questioning the technique.

___.

11:30 a.m.

John Kasich is getting some friendly advice from a Vietnam War combat veteran on how he should deal with the Joint Chiefs of Staff is elected president.

After saying he was nervous to ask a question, the man ended up in the middle of the room with his arm around Kasich, offering his thoughts on military readiness.

Kasich jokingly offered the man a job as Secretary of Defense, then says he’ll welcome advice for anyone who wants to talk to or yell at him if elected.

He says, “that’s how you get smart…you cannot limit the advice that you get.”

___.

11: 06 a.m.

The Jeb Bush campaign is releasing a new online ad Monday aimed at John Kasich, questioning the Ohio governor’s conservative credentials.

The “No Comparison” ad contrasts Bush’s record as a two-term Florida governor with Kasich’s record as a top House leader and as a governor.

The ad comes only a day before the New Hampshire primary, where Kasich, Bush and other GOP candidates are in a fierce fight for second place behind front-runner Donald Trump.

The nearly 90-second ad slams Kasich for voting in favor of an assault-weapons ban in 1994, his efforts to reign in defense spending and his decision to expand Medicaid in Ohio under President Barack Obama’s Affordable Care Act.

The ad claims “Jeb is the conservative you can trust.”

___.

10:30 a.m.

Donald Trump has traded his usual large-scale rallies for an intimate town hall setting.

Trump is taking questions in an Elks Lodge in Salem, New Hampshire in front of a crowd of about 230 people.

The billionaire businessman began by talking about the state’s drug crisis, saying that obtaining heroin is now “cheaper than getting candy.”

Trump has been criticized by some of his rivals for failing to spend enough time in the state and largely foregoing the kind of one-on-one campaigning that has long been a hallmark of the state.

___.

9:30 a.m.

New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie hopes his latest celebrity endorsement before the New Hampshire primary will give him the boost needed for a strong performance Tuesday.

Christie was joined Monday at a town hall meeting in Hudson by Buddy Valastro, star of the TLC reality show “Cake Boss.”

Valastro praised Christie’s leadership in the aftermath of Hurricane Sandy and his ability to get things done in a heavily Democratic state.

“We need someone who’s going to cut through the bullcrap and bring people together.”

___.

8:20 a.m.

Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump has ramped up his schedule as he works to close the deal with New Hampshire voters the day before they head to the polls.

Trump will be holding a rally at an Elks Lodge in Salem, followed by town halls in Manchester and Londonderry.

He’ll cap the night with a rally at the Verizon Wireless Arena.

Trump is facing pressure to translate his poll numbers and rally crowds into votes after a second-place finish in Iowa last week.

Meanwhile, speaking to MSNBC’s Morning Joe Monday, Trump said Iowa’s caucus system is “complex” and he feels he can win New Hampshire’s Tuesday primary.

___.

8:00 a.m.

Florida Sen. Marco Rubio says he feels he did “great” in the last Republican presidential debate and is optimistic that he will do well in Tuesday’s New Hampshire primary.

Speaking to “CBS This Morning” Monday, Rubio refrained from attacking his rivals, particularly Govs. Jeb Bush and Chris Christie, who say the freshman senator doesn’t have the experience needed to be president.

He dismissed critique of his performance at Saturday’s debate, saying Monday that it was his campaign’s “Despite what people want to say, it was our greatest fundraising night.”

Instead, he is emphasizing his strong third-place finish in last week’s Iowa caucus, asserting that he has a chance to do equally as well in New Hampshire.

___.

7:45 a.m.

Republican presidential hopefuls Jeb Bush and Chris Christie say Florida Sen. Marco Rubio, hasn’t been tested in a way that the governors running for president have, leaving him unqualified to be president.

Speaking to MSNBC’s Morning Joe Monday in New Hampshire, which is set to host the country’s second nomination contest Tuesday, Bush referred to Rubio as “a bright, charismatic leader” but described his leadership skills as a “work in progress.”

Christie, New Jersey’s sitting governor, repeated accusations that Rubio recites the same campaign points, calling him a “talented guy” when required to “deliver a speech, read a teleprompter.”

Bush, Florida’s former governor, also attacked billionaire Donald Trump, with whom he clashed at Saturday’s GOP debate over the issue of eminent domain, calling him a “loser.”

___.

7:30 a.m.

The American Legion has asked the campaign of Democratic presidential candidate Bernie Sanders to “cease and desist” from using the organization’s emblem in campaign fliers.

The American Legion wrote to Sanders’ Senate office that it did not have permission to use the emblem in his campaign fliers.

Sanders’ campaign didn’t immediately return a request seeking comment.

The American Legion has twice complained to Sanders officials since Jan. 22 about the use of the emblem in campaign materials. A Feb. 1 letter from the American Legion obtained by The Associated Press warns that “any further communication about it will be through our trademark attorney in the appropriate forum.”

An earlier report in a New Hampshire paper said that Sanders had used the images of pastors and veterans in his fliers.