Underdog Conservative Claudia Tenney Beats Establishment in New York Primary.

Underdog conservative Assemblywoman Claudia Tenney defeated a well-funded Republican Establishment effort in her Tuesday congressional primary in New York.

Tenney took down businessman Steve Wells in the three-way primary in New York’s 22nd congressional district, claiming 41 percent of the vote to Wells’ 33 percent. A source said that Tenney could end up winning by more than ten points once the absentee ballots are counted.

The establishment spent more than a million dollars against her in the primary to try to keep her out of Congress.

Tenney is now poised to square off against  Democrat Kim Myers, who is the daughter of the Dick’s Sporting Goods founder, in November’s general election.

Tenney recently spoke to Breitbart News Saturday on Sirius XM Patriot Channel 125 about her primary race and her political philosophy.

“I’m not afraid to stand up to the establishment in both parties, whether it’s Republican or Democrat,” Tenney said.

“It’s going to be well over a million dollars by the time it’s done,” Tenney said about the money being spent against her in the primary. “It’s probably going to be close to two million dollars…This is what I’m up against. Wealthy liberal Republicans who are just trying to preserve the status quo.” She went on to say:

"Incredibly, by the way, none of them will come out and support Trump. They won’t even admit that they’re going to support Donald Trump because Donald Trump is going to blow up the establishment and I think that’s what they are so afraid of with me. I haven’t been endorsed by establishment Republicans. I have a lot of people who are Democrats who are now on the Trump Train who are also supporting me, not because they agree with me on everything but because they know that the cabal between the establishment in both parties is destroying this country and they need someone who’s going to be strong and stand up for them."

Tenney previously helped fight Oneida Indian Nation leader Ray Halbritter, who spearheaded the campaign to change the Washington Redskins mascot because he claimed it was offensive to Native Americans. As this reporter revealed, Halbritter is not even a legitimate member of the tribe he leads, according to genealogical documents.