Mike Pence Calls for Special Prosecutor after Report Reveals Clinton’s Meetings with Foundation Donors.

Indiana Gov. Mike Pence is joining his running mate Donald Trump in calling for a special prosecutor to investigate Hillary Clinton and for the Clinton Foundation to be shut down after the Associated Press reports more than half of Hillary Clinton’s meetings as secretary of state with non-government officials were with Clinton Foundation donors.

“The fact Hillary Clinton’s official schedule was full of meetings with Clinton Foundation donors is further evidence of the pay-to-play politics at her State Department. No one is above the law. The Clinton Foundation must be immediately shut down and an independent special prosecutor be appointed to determine if access to Hillary Clinton was for sale,” Pence stated in a press release on Tuesday afternoon.

Pence added, “It would be a dereliction of duty by President Obama and his Justice Department if they fail to act on these startling new facts right now.”

<tweet id="768166957728358400" author="@AP" datetime="2016-08-23">BREAKING: AP analysis: More than half those who met Clinton as Cabinet secretary gave money to Clinton Foundation. — The Associated Press (@AP) August 23, 2016</tweet>.

Pence’s press release linked to the Associated Press report, which notes, “More than half the people outside the government who met with Hillary Clinton while she was secretary of state gave money – either personally or through companies or groups – to the Clinton Foundation. It’s an extraordinary proportion indicating her possible ethics challenges if elected president.”

Trump called for a special prosecutor to oversee an investigation into the alleged pay-to-play relationship between the Clinton Foundation and the Department of State during Clinton’s tenure as secretary of state at a campaign rally in Ohio on Monday night.

“The Clintons made the State Department into the same kind of Pay-to-Play operation as the Arkansas Government was: pay the Clinton Foundation huge sums of money and throw in some big speaking fees for Bill Clinton and you got to play with the State Department,” Trump declared. “The amounts involved, the favors done and the significant numbers of times it was done require an expedited investigation by a Special Prosecutor.”