Hillary Clinton gets testy on campaign trail.

PURCHASE, N.Y., April 1 (UPI) — The race for the Democratic nomination is taking on a testier tone, with front-runner Hillary Clinton aggressively taking on protesters loyal to her opponent Sen. Bernie Sanders twice Thursday.

The first incident came during a speech at the State University of New York at Purchase, when Sanders protesters interrupted her speech, shouting “she wins, we lose!”

“Oh, I know the Bernie people came to say that. We’re so sorry you’re leaving,” Clinton said sarcastically.

Clinton supporters responded with chants of “I’m with her” until Clinton herself spoke up, and took on the protesters again.

“I have earned 9 million votes in this election. I have 1 million more votes than Donald Trump and I have 2.5 million more votes than Bernie Sanders,” Clinton said.

She then addressed the supporters again: “Here is what I regret. I regret they don’t want to listen to anybody else.”

The second incident came while Clinton was working a rope line, shaking hands. A woman later identified as Eva Resnick-Day, an activist for the environmental group Greenpeace, demanded to know whether Clinton would forsake campaign donations from oil companies.

Clinton, clearly frustrated, responded by pointing a finger in the woman’s face, saying the Sanders campaign was conflating donations from people who work for oil companies into support from the oil companies themselves.

“I do not have — I have money from people who work for fossil fuel companies. I am so sick — I am so sick of the Sanders campaign lying about me. I’m sick of it.”

The Sanders campaign responded Friday, saying industry lobbyists and fundraisers have donated to a super PAC supporting Clinton, and that the criticism, which is outlined in a report from Greenpeace, is fair game.

“If the Clinton campaign wants to argue that industry lobbyists giving thousands of dollars to her campaign won’t affect her decisions if she’s elected, that’s fine,” Sanders campaign manager Jeff Weaver said. “But to call us liars for pointing out basic facts about the secretary’s fundraising is deeply cynical and very disappointing.”