Bernie Sanders: ‘It Is Not A Radical Idea’ To Ask For A $15 Minimum Wage.

WASHINGTON — Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) defended his call to raise the federal minimum wage to $15 an hour, saying the positives in economic stimulus would outweigh the potential in job losses.

“I apologize to nobody for that,” the senator said during Saturday night’s Democratic debate. “When we put money into the hands of working people, they are going to go out and buy goods, they are going to go out and buy services and they are going to create jobs in doing that.”

The senator was being challenged on the economics of such a steep wage hike — the current federal minimum wage is $7.25. And he refused, generally, to concede that critics had a point in warning that businesses might hire fewer workers if they had to pay far higher salaries.

“It is not a radical idea to say that if somebody works 40 hours a week, that person should not be living in poverty,” he said.

Sanders’ stridency was echoed by former Maryland Gov. Martin O’Malley, who noted that he had raised the state’s minimum wage while governor. But the other candidate on the stage, former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, drew a contrast, saying that concerns about potential job loss — as articulated by Alan Krueger, the former chairman of President Barack Obama’s Council of Economic Advisers — were not to be dismissed.

“I do take what Alan Krueger said seriously. He is the foremost expert in our country on the minimum wage and what its effects are. And the overall message is that it doesn’t result in job loss,” she said. “However, what Alan Krueger said in the piece you’re referring to is that if we went to $15, there are no international comparisons. That is why I support a $12 national official minimum wage. That is what the Democrats in the Senate have put forward as a proposal. But I do believe that is a minimum. And places like Seattle, like Los Angeles, like New York City, they can go higher.”

"Related:"

Hillary Clinton Put On The Defensive Over Middle East Policy.

Bernie Sanders: I’m Not Much Of A Socialist Compared To Eisenhower.

Hillary Clinton Sides With George W. Bush On ‘Radical Islam.’

Bernie Sanders Pins The Rise Of ISIS On ‘Disastrous’ Invasion Of Iraq
See photos from the debate below:

The Faces of the Fight for 15 Movement.

The Faces of the Fight for 15 Movement.

1.

of.

8.

Name: Gabrielle Hatcher Age: 27City: New YorkJob: WaitressPay: $5 per hour plus tipsWhy she’s protesting: “As a tip worker, I make a sub-minimum wage of $5 an hour plus tips, so I never really know how much I’m going to make, and in every other position you generally know how much you’re making before you take a job. A lot of people here are wondering why we’re talking about racial justice, but racial justice and economic justice are really just two sides of the same coin here. As a woman of color, I’ve been passed up for promotions and higher-paying positions. I’ve been turned down from positions where I’d be making more money because they only hire white males at a lot of fine dining establishments in the city. I live with five other workers in the city and we struggle to make ends meet because we never know how much we’re going to work. We work for eight hours plus, and sometimes we only make 20 bucks. We can’t afford health coverage, so we stay sick longer, we serve the public when we’re healthy and if we don’t find coverage we risk losing our job. Being a tip worker kind of exploits you to the whims of total strangers. It’s kind of ridiculous that businesses expect their customers to pay their employees. It doesn’t make any sense, especially because I’ve experienced harassment a lot and there’s not a lot of room to speak up or defend yourself without losing your job.”
