Clinton stays well ahead of Sanders in latest poll.

ABSTRACT.

Hillary Rodham Clinton has support from 52 percent of Democratic primary voters, while Mr. Sanders has backing from 33 percent, according to a New York Times/CBS News survey released on Thursday.

FULL TEXT.

Despite a month of sharpened attacks, Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont has failed to significantly dent Hillary Rodham Clinton's lead in the Democratic presidential race, according to a New York Times/CBS News survey released on Thursday.

Mrs. Clinton has support from 52 percent of Democratic primary voters, while Mr. Sanders has backing from 33 percent, the poll found. In an early-October CBS News poll, she led Mr. Sanders 56 percent to 32 percent.

Mr. Sanders, whose overarching challenge is to transform his left-wing, lesser-known candidacy into a formidable national campaign with broad appeal, will face his greatest test yet on Saturday night at the second Democratic debate, which will be televised nationally from Des Moines.

Mrs. Clinton will take the stage after a run of positive developments since their Oct. 13 debate, including strong reviews of her performance there, Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr.'s decision not to enter the race, and a steely, well-received face-off with congressional Republicans investigating the 2012 attack on the United States diplomatic compound in Benghazi, Libya.

Mr. Sanders, in turn, has been drawing more contrasts with Mrs. Clinton's positions on trade, Social Security, the death penalty and marijuana legalization since the October debate, but his attacks have not been memorably effective.

A strong majority of Democratic primary voters say they are paying at least some attention to the presidential campaign; 26 percent of Democrats say they have not been paying much attention, compared with 11 percent of Republican primary voters.

The nationwide telephone poll was conducted Nov. 6 to 10 on cellphones and landlines with 418 Democratic primary voters. The margin of sampling error is plus or minus six percentage points.