Convention cities brace for protests; 
Cleveland sets strict rules as Philadelphia plans to give rallies more leeway.

ABSTRACT.

Cleveland and Philadelphia are preparing for the possibility that anger may spill into the streets during the Republican and Democratic conventions.

FULL TEXT.

Republicans arriving in Cleveland next month to nominate Donald J. Trump will be greeted by as many as 6,000 protesters on the first day, a noisy coalition of dozens of groups, including Black Lives Matter and the Workers World Party. The demonstrators intend to ignore restrictions keeping them far from the delegates, raising fears the violence that accompanied some of Mr. Trump's rallies will be magnified on a mass scale.

Two marches along routes the city has not authorized are planned for the convention's opening day, July 18. Organizers say they want to avoid violence. But they are also gearing up for confrontation with the police, including training in civil disobedience.

''If there are people willing to put themselves on the line to be arrested, so be it,'' said Deb Kline, a leader of Cleveland Jobs With Justice, one of the groups that will march.

A week later, as Democrats pour into Philadelphia, so will an army of Bernie Sanders supporters planning Occupy Wall Street-style protests against what they call the ''fraudulent'' nomination of Hillary Clinton. One group, Occupy DNC Convention, is circulating information about protecting oneself from tear gas by wearing a vinegar-soaked bandanna and swim goggles.

The divisive nominating contests have produced countercurrents of deep resentment in both parties. And next month, that bitterness could spill into the streets in large protests just when Republicans and Democrats - and the host cities - are trying to present images of unity to the country.

Mass demonstrations have occurred at nearly every modern political convention, perhaps none more disastrously than at the 1968 Democratic convention in Chicago, where street riots contributed to Hubert H. Humphrey's loss that November.

There is no chance of that level of violence, officials in both cities insist, because modern policing has evolved to be less confrontational. Philadelphia is considering issuing $100 summonses to marchers blocking highways or failing to disperse, rather than arresting them.

But protest organizers in Cleveland say that by imposing strict rules to contain demonstrators, the city is only increasing the likelihood that unsanctioned protests will erupt, leading to violent clashes with the police or between Trump supporters and opponents.

Protest groups say the restrictions are less for safety than to minimize their visibility, and the American Civil Liberties Union of Ohio has already sued the city over the rules, saying they violate free-speech rights.

Some protest leaders said they would ignore the restrictions and march as close as possible to the arena, which will be wrapped in a security perimeter set by the Secret Service.

''They made this plan to frustrate and aggravate people who want to demonstrate within their rights against the Republican agenda,'' said Thomas Burke, a leader of the Coalition to Stop Trump and March on the RNC. Expecting thousands for a protest on the convention's opening day, Mr. Burke said he would ignore the official parade route and march from Cleveland's Public Square to within ''sight and sound'' of the arena.

Even the organizer of a pro-Trump rally said the city's rules increased the chance of violence by confining all demonstrators to the same route.

''You stick everybody together face to face, you're going to have a problem,'' said Tim Selaty, organizer of a group called Citizens for Trump, which expects 5,000 to attend. ''They have created a much more dangerous situation.''

A spokesman for Mayor Frank G. Jackson of Cleveland defended the prescribed march route and said the police had trained for 18 months to deal with protesters.

The potential impact on Mr. Trump and Mrs. Clinton as they formally enter the general election is asymmetrical.

In Cleveland, Mr. Trump - who will be confronted by left-wing demonstrators, not fellow Republicans - could potentially benefit from scenes of mayhem that allow him to call for law and order and project strength, as he did recently when opponents punched his supporters and burned their ''Make America Great Again'' hats in California. Street chaos, if it occurs, could overshadow disunion in the convention hall as an increasing array of party leaders nervously break ranks with Mr. Trump.

Democratic leaders are worried about emerging from their convention with an unmollified ''Bernie or Bust'' contingent whose protests could provide jarring split-screen images as the party seeks to rally around Mrs. Clinton.

Philadelphia is giving the protesters more leeway than Cleveland is, allowing daylong rallies of Sanders supporters in Franklin Delano Roosevelt Park facing the convention site, the Wells Fargo Center, on all four days of the convention, July 25-28. Bill Taylor, an organizer of the rallies, said he expected up to 250,000 people still angry that Mr. Sanders lost the Democratic nomination by what they believe is a rigged system.

Even as Mrs. Clinton effectively clinched the nomination by securing a majority of delegates, many Sanders supporters insist there were fraud and voter suppression. ''We feel like democracy has been stolen,'' said Laurie Cestnick, the founder of a Facebook group called Occupy DNC Convention, which has more than 25,000 members. Her group is a hub for ride shares to Philadelphia, information about ''Bernie Buses'' and tent camping and a friendly warning not to use BernieBNB, a house-sharing app that is already overwhelmed. Ms. Cestnick's application for a permit for up to 15,000 people to march on July 25 is pending with the city.

Mr. Taylor's group, March for Bernie at DNC, plans to demand the resignation of the Democratic Party chairwoman, Representative Debbie Wasserman Schultz of Florida; the end of the use of superdelegates, or party leaders who get nominating votes and have overwhelmingly backed Mrs. Clinton; and universal open primaries. Independents strongly favored Mr. Sanders over Mrs. Clinton, but could not vote in the many closed primaries, where only registered Democrats could participate.

If the demands are not met, Mr. Taylor warned, die-hard Sanders supporters plan to leave the Democratic Party. Polls show as many as 30 percent of Mr. Sanders's backers say they will not vote for Mrs. Clinton.