Sisterhood of the Skateboard.

Early one evening in June, River Avenue Skate Park in the Bronx was reverberating with its usual medley of screeching from the elevated No. 4 train and scattered applause from Yankee Stadium, when a young boy shouted, ''Brujas coming, yo!''

And with that, in rolled some of the park's most steadfast devotees, their ponytails waving in the breeze. The Brujas, a crew of female skateboarders, have gathered regularly there for more than two years, but they still tend to turn heads. Even as they have become fixtures in the local skateboarding community, the young women -- all of them from ethnic minorities, most from Upper Manhattan or the Bronx -- are frequently greeted with catcalling and rubbernecking.

''Silly boys acting like they've never seen a girl before,'' scoffed Arianna Gil, 22, who helped found the group in 2014. ''Skater bros all think they're rebels, but who are the real outsiders here?''

Skateboarding, which long enjoyed a freewheeling, anti-establishment reputation, has gained substantial mainstream traction and corporate sponsorship over the years. And still the sport remains dominated by men, most of them white. The Brujas hope their presence on the scene will challenge skateboarding culture with what they view as a more radical agenda.

''There's so little opportunity for young people of color in terms of jobs and education that we don't feel like a part of this city,'' Ms. Gil said. ''Skating is a way to reclaim our freedom.''

That sense of independence is what first drew Samantha Olivieri, 20, to skateboarding seven years ago. Then a middle school student living in the Washington Heights neighborhood of Manhattan, Ms. Olivieri found skating to be a salve for her depression and feelings of inferiority, she said. She passed many days cruising the perimeter of Manhattan, grinding the trucks of her board along every railing in sight. ''Hearing my trucks on metal is like therapy,'' Ms. Olivieri said. ''It's one of the most empowering feelings in the world.''

Yasmeen Wilkerson, 18, was dubious when she was introduced to skateboarding through her boyfriend, but she soon recalibrated her priorities. ''I dumped the guy but kept the skateboard,'' she said with a grin.

Whatever prompted them individually to start skating, the Brujas have found a much-needed support system in their group. Riding alone as a woman in a male-dominated park, they said, can be hazardous. Nearly everyone has a horror story from pre-Brujas days of intimidation or abuse at the hands of male skaters. Traveling together, they feel a greater sense of safety. Indeed, the name ''Brujas'' -- Spanish for ''witches'' -- comes from the title of a 1986 video depicting women pushing men off their skateboards.

''Brujas has a special kind of bond,'' said Carla Cruz, 24. ''This right here is a sisterhood.''

As the young women skated through the 10,000-square-foot park, that bond quickly revealed itself. They not only cracked jokes and traded stories, they also provided one another with words of encouragement and guidance on tricks. Often, they filmed moves to show off later on their Instagram account.

Each skater seemed to be honing her own specialty and style. On the smoothest stretch of pavement, Ms. Wilkerson was practicing one iteration after another of a move called the boneless, in which she grabbed the middle of her board with one hand and rotated it around to the opposite end before hopping back on, all in one seamless whirl. Ms. Cruz stuck mostly to the curved walls of the bowl, trying a variety of pivots and pull-ups. Ms. Olivieri seemed to be on a perpetual search for surfaces to pull off a 50-50 grind.

Ms. Gil took particular joy in skating outside the park, popping nollie flips, shove-its and other tricks in front of the nearby condominium complexes, which have risen as part of a continuing wave of development in the area. To Ms. Gil, skateboarding represents a cry of dissent against the city's gentrification.

''Skateboarding is a political act,'' said Ms. Gil, whose family moved to Washington Heights in 2009 after being priced out of an apartment on the Lower East Side. ''It allows us to question private property and reclaim all the spaces in our city that have been rezoned and redeveloped into oblivion.''

These rapid changes are a pressing fact of life for the Brujas, all of whom have seen their neighborhoods shift in recent years. Though Ms. Olivieri has spent most of her life in Washington Heights, the influx of wealthier residents has led to an increased police presence, she said.

''Cops have taken over the entire neighborhood, but they're here for the people moving in, not us,'' she said. ''Now I've got officers giving me a hard time for skateboarding, even making me show ID in my own damn lobby. It's wild.''

Moments later, as Ms. Olivieri took a break in the shade with Nesa Guzman, 21, a squad car pulled up to the corner and began scanning the crowd. ''What do you know, it's our best friends,'' Ms. Guzman said with an eye roll. Even though skateboarding is sanctioned within the park, the women say officers still scrutinize the area, handing out penalties to skateboarders who forgo helmets or stay after hours. (According to the New York Police Department, it does not keep statistics on violations specifically related to skateboarding.)

With one foot propping her board to a 45-degree tilt, Ms. Gil gazed out across the concrete with a look of hardened resolve. ''I'll put it this way,'' she said. ''Every time we skate, it's a way to tell the city we're not just going to take these changes in stride. We're here to add a little chaos.''

As the Brujas have increased, in members and lore, so has their activism. What began in parks and playgrounds now extends into other arenas of organizing. Some of the women said they had spoken out at City Council hearings on rezoning plans; helped marshal protesters for rallies fighting mass incarceration; and put together open-mike nights highlighting underserved voices.

Increasingly, the Brujas have become interested in fostering a sense of community among minority youths across the city. In June, the group collaborated with By Us for Us, a project advocating Black-Asian solidarity, to organize a party called Anti-Prom at a former factory in Clinton Hill, Brooklyn. The gathering was an effervescent celebration of people usually sidelined by traditional prom culture, namely L.G.B.T. racial and ethnic minorities.

Of late, the Brujas have been busy with their most ambitious effort yet: a free alternative camp for young people with little else to pass the languid summer months. The program is hardly formal, but it has attracted a loyal following, said Ms. Gil, with games of capture the flag, nutrition classes, alternative medicine workshops and hikes through Van Cortlandt Park in the Bronx.

The Brujas tend to spread the word about events, including their camp, through social media or mass text messages, but often plans come together impulsively. One recent afternoon, the women were leaving the skate park when they encountered a group of boys squabbling with police officers under the train tracks.

''Follow us,'' Ms. Gil said, and the boys, intrigued, trailed behind, en route to the plaza at the Bronx criminal courthouse. There, the group divided in two, and soon enough, a game of capture the flag was underway. The young men and women -- about 20 of them -- played for nearly an hour, wide smiles plastered across their faces.

''To me, this is a whole other layer of what we're about,'' Ms. Gil said. ''Brujas was never just limited to skateboarding -- it's about regaining power for our community in any way we can.''

As she hopped on her board to go home, Ms. Gil couldn't help running through one last round of nollie flips. Each time, the board upended completely, flipping a full revolution before her feet reached the deck.

EMAIL: fitcity@nytimes.com.