Biden calls Trump risk to U.S. safety; 
With characteristic zeal, vice president talks tough in first rally with Clinton.

ABSTRACT.

Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. said Donald J. Trump's remarks had already made him a danger to American allies and military personnel.

FULL TEXT.

Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. warned this week that Donald J. Trump, even as a candidate, had elevated the dangers confronting American allies and military personnel overseas.

Mr. Biden said on Monday that on a trip to Kosovo and Serbia this week, he would be compelled to ''reassure'' allies that the United States would honor its commitment to NATO, given Mr. Trump's comments saying he would reassess the arrangement if elected.

''Because they're worried,'' Mr. Biden said in his first campaign appearance beside Hillary Clinton.

He added that if his son Beau, who died of brain cancer last year, were still serving in Iraq, he would advise him that the danger had increased ''a couple clicks'' because of Mr. Trump's remarks, which have included the suggestion that President Obama was the ''founder'' of the Islamic State.

''This guy's shame has no limits,'' he said.

Mr. Biden suggested Mr. Trump had demonstrated a fondness for brutal leaders like Saddam Hussein - ''He would have loved Stalin,'' Mr. Biden said twice - and repeatedly reminded the crowd of the stakes.

''There's a guy that follows me, right back here, has the nuclear codes,'' Mr. Biden said at one point.

Mr. Trump is so reckless, the vice president said, that if his late son had planned to enlist in a Trump administration, ''I would have thrown my body in front of him.''

For Mr. Biden, after nearly eight years in the nation's chief supporting role, the appearance hinted at the niche he sees for himself as Election Day nears: a figure who can argue, plainly and personally, that Mr. Trump has already imperiled the nation he aspires to lead.

It was also a glimpse at the campaign that wasn't - the earned folksiness, the willingness to test audience stamina, the years of practice at appearing unpracticed - laying bare the strengths and tics of a would-be candidate who decided last year against challenging the woman he spent Monday embracing.

He mustered characteristic zeal to hold forth on American greatness and sacrifice. He interrupted himself at one point to wave to his family, arranging aloud for a future hug. He appeared to make an off-color joke about an old house of his in Scranton.

For much of the 34-minute performance - with sleeves rolled slightly and any prepared text doomed to be ignored - Mr. Biden assured his hometown's residents that Mrs. Clinton was ''made of the same stuff,'' even if she could not always show it.

''Maybe the difference between the Irish Catholic and the Methodist,'' he wondered aloud, comparing himself with Mrs. Clinton from behind the vice-presidential seal. ''We wear everything on our sleeve!''

Since announcing in October that he would not seek the presidency, Mr. Biden has been a loyal Democratic lieutenant, taking care to praise Mrs. Clinton in public and rousing Democrats with a vintage address at the party's national convention last month.

But their decades-long relationship has more often been defined by an intense rivalry in private - a predictable tension, perhaps, for two figures who have long imagined themselves in the nation's top job. As he considered a run last year, still grieving his son's death, Mr. Biden felt slighted as the party establishment fell in line behind Mrs. Clinton.

In conversations with donors, Mr. Biden expressed astonishment at Mrs. Clinton's handling of questions over her private email server. At times last year, people close to the vice president said, the mere mention of Mrs. Clinton's name could make him fume.

''They were professionals, but also competitors,'' William M. Daley, President Obama's former chief of staff, said of their time in the administration. ''They'd do the dance. There was respect there, but Joe considered himself the expert on foreign policy.''

Asked whether largely watching the campaign from the sidelines had been hard for Mr. Biden, Mr. Daley said: ''Of course. He wanted to run.''

Yet in their first joint campaign appearance on Monday, in the city where both claim roots - Mrs. Clinton's father also grew up here, as she said at the outset - any lingering rancor was well concealed.

They took the stage to Bruce Springsteen's ''The Rising,'' with Mrs. Clinton clapping the beat. Mr. Biden settled in a chair behind her, turning back to smile at the crowd. Mrs. Clinton introduced him as ''a fighter for families'' and a passionate advocate. She said, if elected, she would ask Mr. Biden to continue to help lead a ''cancer moonshot'' initiative at the White House.

She even brandished a few retail politicking touches that Mr. Biden might appreciate, describing her own christening ''at the Methodist church on Court Street,'' recalling summer visits to Lake Winola and detailing her grandfather's time at the Scranton Lace mill.

She said her father had ''literally hopped a freight train from Scranton to Chicago'' to find work, deploying Mr. Biden's favorite adverb, if perhaps unwittingly.

Repeatedly, the complex filled with chants for the two, with signs of ''Welcome home, Joe!'' or, simply, ''Joe'' shooting into view.

Mr. Biden, recalling weekly breakfasts with Mrs. Clinton, described himself as her ''Obama whisperer.''

''She'd look at me and say, 'What did he mean by that?''' Mr. Biden said, clutching the lectern with two hands.

Often, Mr. Biden conspicuously interrupted himself, as if bantering with his own notes. ''I really mean this,'' he said. ''This is not a joke.''