Republicans Have Stake in a Deal on a Justice.

Senate Republican leaders have insisted they won't consider an Obama nominee to the Supreme Court, leaving that choice to the next president. But they may want to reconsider after this week -- especially if they care about protecting the pro-business rulings that are among the late Justice Antonin Scalia's most important legacies.

The Republicans' strategy appears to be premised on the voters' election of a Republican president who will nominate an archconservative in the Scalia mold. And even if a Democrat wins the White House, it assumes Republicans will retain control of the Senate, giving them considerable leverage to insist on a justice they can at least tolerate, and in any event leaving them no worse off than they are now.

With the emergence of Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton as front-runners, both premises look increasingly dubious.

Mrs. Clinton leads Mr. Trump in national polls by a three-percentage-point margin, 45.4 percent to 42 percent, according to the average of recent polls compiled by Real Clear Politics. The Iowa Electronic Markets, where traders invest in the outcome, show the Democratic nominee -- presumptively, Mrs. Clinton -- even more likely to win the popular vote than the Republican nominee -- presumptively, Mr. Trump.

Ominously for the Republican strategy, the odds in favor of Democrats' regaining control of the Senate have shot up this week on the Iowa exchange, overtaking the likelihood of Republican control.

So the question for the Republican Senate leadership now and over the next few months, as the likely outcome becomes even clearer, is stark: Would they prefer an Obama nominee who is expected to be moderate and will be likely to deliver at least some of their agenda, or one chosen by Mrs. Clinton who, with a Democratic Senate, would have virtually unfettered discretion to pick anyone she wants?

''If Hillary is elected, and certainly if there's a Democratic Senate, the Republicans would be much better off with a moderate nominee now,'' said Laurence H. Tribe, professor of constitutional law at Harvard Law School. ''That's a rational way of looking at it. I'd hope they'd see reason but I wouldn't bet the family farm on it.''

And when it comes to business and economic issues, what's at stake is nearly every pro-business Supreme Court ruling since the Reagan era and the emergence of a reliable 5-to-4 pro-business majority on the court.

''To see the number of cases that could change with this appointee is stunning,'' since so many of the most important cases were decided by 5-to-4 votes, said Lee Epstein, who teaches constitutional law and legal institutions at Washington University in St. Louis.

Justice Scalia's death and the loss of a reliably pro-business vote have already caused Dow Chemical to pay $835 million to settle an antitrust price-fixing case that it had lost in lower courts and that was on the Supreme Court's docket. (A 4-to-4 tie at the Supreme Court would have left the lower court's adverse decision in place.)

Among Supreme Court precedents at risk, according to Ms. Epstein, are 16 involving business activity, unions or tax policy, including Walmart Stores v. Dukes, which denied class-action status to female employees of the discount retailer. Additional rulings in jeopardy that are of keen interest to business include Citizens United, which struck down limits on political contributions by businesses and labor, and Ashcroft v. Iqbal, which made it easier for courts to dismiss cases alleging discrimination.

Ms. Epstein, along with Judge Richard A. Posner of the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit and William M. Landes, a law professor at the University of Chicago, wrote an in-depth assessment of business cases before the Supreme Court. In it, they conclude that four of the 10 justices since 1946 friendliest to business are now on the court (Samuel A. Alito Jr., John G. Roberts Jr., Clarence Thomas and Anthony M. Kennedy) -- and a fifth was Justice Scalia. The sitting justice who is least friendly to business is Sonia Sotomayor, exactly the kind of liberal jurist many Republicans fear Mrs. Clinton would choose.

As Akhil Amar, professor of constitutional law at Yale and author of ''America's Unwritten Constitution,'' put it, ''Senate Republicans should remember that a compromise candidate today may be far better for them than the justice they may get stuck with if the November election does not break their way.''

And if Mr. Trump is the nominee and wins the election, there is no guarantee he would name a conservative in the Scalia mold. ''Who would Trump appoint to anything? He's a wild card,'' Ms. Epstein said.

Mr. Amar said that if viewed through the lens of negotiating strategy, some kind of grand bargain might be possible: ''In business, the question always is, is there an overlap between the bid and ask price? In other words, can Obama offer the Republicans something they want, and at what price? If so, it might be in both parties' interest to reach a deal.''

The three constitutional scholars -- Mr. Tribe, Ms. Epstein and Mr. Amar -- agreed there are qualified candidates who could thread the needle between Democratic and Republican priorities, especially since pro-business candidates do not necessarily fall into strictly liberal or conservative camps.

Justice Kennedy, a Reagan appointee, has been the swing vote for such cherished liberal social causes as abortion rights and gay marriage while ranking among the most business-friendly justices. Justice Stephen G. Breyer, a Clinton appointee considered a liberal, nonetheless ranks reasonably high on the business-friendly list.

Three names prominently mentioned as potential nominees are Jane Kelly, a judge on the United States Court of Appeals in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, and two judges on the United States Court of Appeals in Washington, Sri Srinivasan and Merrick B. Garland. All were confirmed with Republican support. None has a reputation for being either pro- or anti-business, but Judge Garland is an expert on antitrust law and has lectured on the topic at Harvard Law School.

President Obama has sought Republican suggestions, an offer the leadership rebuffed at a White House meeting this week.

''There's no question Obama could name someone exceptionally well qualified and ideologically acceptable to Republican senators,'' Ms. Epstein said. ''The question is how far he's willing to go to cater to their interests.''

Depending on Mrs. Clinton's strength in the polls, he might not have to go all that far, especially if he is willing to offer Republicans someone likely to advance at least some of their business and economic agenda.

Business issues generally do not excite such intense political passions, which may make it easier for Mr. Obama to compromise on at least some of them. Some major business priorities now at risk are Supreme Court precedents restricting class actions, limiting punitive damages and requiring parties to go to arbitration rather than court. While many trial lawyers, including big contributors to Democratic candidates, fiercely opposed those decisions, the Democratic base has shown little interest.

Even union rights, which the current court has been chipping away at, have faded in political significance outside the public sector.

''You could find someone reliably willing to perpetuate those pro-business trends and yet unlikely to alienate major liberal constituencies,'' Mr. Tribe said.

Given that he is in the waning months of his second term, Mr. Obama may be more interested in his legacy than in whipping up the Democratic base. If so, he would want someone committed to his views and likely to preserve his legacy on health care, immigration, climate change and civil rights. On those issues, Republicans would have to compromise. But that still leaves room for other Republican priorities.

Ms. Epstein noted that nominating a Supreme Court justice is an important element of any president's legacy, since it extends a president's influence far beyond his or her term, often for decades. Naming a third justice would be a signature achievement for Obama, another incentive to reach some kind of compromise with the Republicans.

Should they continue to rebuff any nominee, there is also the possibility that Mrs. Clinton, if elected, might nominate Mr. Obama himself, a prospect sure to horrify many Republicans. ''Wow, what a great idea,'' she said in Iowa earlier this year in response to a voter's question.

(Mr. Obama hasn't indicated any interest in joining the court, but if he did, he would be following in the footsteps of William Howard Taft, who served as chief justice for nearly nine years after leaving the White House.)

Still, none of the constitutional scholars I interviewed this week thought compromise was likely, given the bitterly polarized political climate and the Republican leadership's repeated refusal to take up any Obama nominee. But that doesn't mean it couldn't happen.

''Obama doesn't have to pick someone who will be perceived as a liberal firebrand,'' Mr. Tribe said. ''In his second book, he made clear he believes the court works best when it's not at the forefront of major cultural and social movements. He wouldn't have to compromise what he wants to achieve to nominate someone measured and moderate.''