Via legislative side doors, Sanders made some gains; 
Senator presses agenda through appending small provisions to larger bills.

ABSTRACT.

Despite complaints that he is a quixotic crusader, Mr. Sanders has found ways to press his agenda through appending small provisions to larger bills.

FULL TEXT.

As Democrats cobbled together a sweeping overhaul of immigration law three years ago, Senator Chuck Schumer of New York was clear about one thing: His party could not suffer a single defection.

But one naysayer remained - Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, who had opposed a similar effort in 2007 and once again did not like provisions in the new bill that he thought would displace American workers. And he had a price, a $1.5 billion youth jobs program.

Through wheeling and dealing, shaming and cajoling, Mr. Sanders, an independent who caucuses with Democrats, got his wish, and his favored provision was grafted incongruously onto a tough-minded Republican border security amendment and paid for by higher visa fees for some foreign travelers.

The immigration bill, opposed by House Republicans, never became law. But the jobs program amendment was a signature Bernie Sanders move. He is a self-described democratic socialist who has spent a quarter-century in Congress working the side door, tacking on amendments to larger bills to succeed at the margins, generally focused on working-class Americans, income inequality and the environment.

Mr. Sanders is not unlike Tea Party Republicans in his tactics, except his are a decaf version. While he is unlikely to turn against his party on important votes, he is most proud of the things he has tried - unsuccessfully - to block over the years. And he boasts about them constantly on the campaign trail: the Iraq war, the Wall Street bailout and the Patriot Act after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.

Yet in spite of persistent carping that Mr. Sanders is nothing but a quixotic crusader - during their first debate, Hillary Clinton cracked, ''I'm a progressive, but I'm a progressive who likes to get things done'' - he has often been an effective, albeit modest, legislator. He has enacted his agenda piece by piece, in politically digestible chunks with few sweeping legislative achievements in a quarter-century in Congress.

Over one 12-year stretch in the House, Mr. Sanders passed more amendments by roll call vote than any other member of Congress. In the Senate, he secured money for dairy farmers and community health centers, blocked banks from hiring foreign workers and reined in the Federal Reserve, all through measures attached to larger bills.

But in his presidential campaign Mr. Sanders is trying to scale up those kinds of proposals as a national agenda, and there is little to draw from his small-ball legislative approach to suggest that he could succeed.

Mr. Sanders is suddenly promising not just a few stars here and there, but the moon and a good part of the sun, from free college tuition paid for with giant tax increases to a huge expansion in government health care, which has made even liberal Democrats skeptical.

Mr. Sanders has been pushing basically the same legislative agenda since he was the mayor of Burlington, Vt., in the 1980s, one that favors workers, veterans and college students. But in 2016, he has found that the marriage of his passions and his blunt, fiery oration have come into vogue among many Democrats.

''I would point out to you that in perhaps the most significant public policy issue of our time, the war in Iraq, I cast the correct vote,'' Mr. Sanders told CNN last year. ''On the other hand, Secretary Clinton voted for that war. Her judgment was not right.''

His congressional relationships with Democrats and Republicans have been largely legislative and not loving. A backscratcher he is not. Mr. Sanders is far more likely to be found alone in his apartment watching cable news than out for Chinese food with other members of Congress.

''He is not Ted Kennedy, who managed to have these personal relationships that come from the day in and day out working the halls,'' said Representative Peter Welch, Democrat of Vermont, who replaced Mr. Sanders in the House. ''The way he works is consistent with his temperament and his skills.''

Counter to his reputation as a far-left gadfly, Mr. Sanders has done much of his work with Republican partners, generally people with whom he has little, but sometimes just enough, in common.

He worked with Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, to prevent foreign workers from replacing Americans at banks that have had a federal bailout, and with former Representative Ron Paul of Texas, who shared his zeal for monitoring the Federal Reserve.

Mr. Sanders's most notable partnership with a Republican was also one of his greatest successes. In 2014, Mr. Sanders, as chairman of the Senate Veterans Affairs Committee, worked out an accord with Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, on a bill to expand veterans' access to health care after a scandal involving veterans' hospitals across the country.

The bill did something Republicans wanted: It allowed veterans to go outside the official hospital system to get care under certain circumstances, while it expanded the government services that Mr. Sanders demanded.

''Given how liberal he is, it made the work hard,'' Mr. McCain recalled last week. ''But he was an honest liberal. I've worked with people who tell you they are going to do one thing and then do another, and Bernie did what he said. And he was very effective.''

But when it comes to Mr. Sanders's proudest legislative moments, it is the losses that stand out, in the liberal mirror image of the Tea Party Republicans.

He was among 25 senators in 2008 to vote against the $700 billion bailout of big banks. He said no to the Iraq war. The Patriot Act and a popular measure to develop and deploy a defense system to stop Iranian ballistic missiles? Not to Mr. Sanders.

In 2010, he voted against a measure to temporarily extend the Bush tax cuts against the wishes of the White House. He also gave an eight-hour floor speech to defend himself, setting off his current romance with liberal voters.

Mr. Sanders got the rest of the Democratic base to listen to words he has been repeating for decades, not so much because his legislation has been in constant step with the nation's, but rather because much of the nation has come around to the things he has been legislating.

''Bernie has been talking about income inequality since 1981,'' Mr. Welch said. ''And now that is a message whose time has come.''