World War II haunts our terror debate; 
Letter From America.

ABSTRACT.

Seven decades on, it is remarkable how many of our political arguments continue to focus on the resistance of Nazi-like behavior.

FULL TEXT.

It gets your attention when a leader says we are at ''the beginning of a terrorist world war.'' It carries greater weight when that leader runs a major intelligence agency. And more weight still when that agency is German, its very name a product of the last world war and its lessons about fear and evil and the terrifying ease of losing one's soul: the Federal Office for the Protection of the Constitution.

Not the fatherland, not the people, but the Constitution.

A German warning about a new world war serves as a complicated dual reminder to be vigilant about creeping threats to human civilization and skeptical about one's own vigilance, lest it become a threat unto itself.

After Sharm el Sheikh, after Beirut, after Paris, after Yola, after Bamako, you can sense the turning mood. These are the jihadist strikes just of the last 30 days, and the list is not exhaustive. Blood is rising. Fear throbs. We seem closer than usual to History.

The United States has been watching from afar. And to observe the roiling conversation is to be aware of the specter of German history that wafts through, and the dueling (and justified) fears it inspires: the fear of showing up late to the next totalitarian war, of lacking the clarity to see a new Nazism in our midst; and the countervailing fear of our capacity for stigmatization and overreaction, of the risk of becoming totalitarian in the effort to thwart totalitarianism.

Seven decades on, it is remarkable how many of our political arguments continue to focus on the resistance of Nazi-like behavior, whether in ourselves or others.

On one side you have Islamic State-as-Nazism arguments. Rabbi Marvin Hier, the founder of the Simon Wiesenthal Center in Los Angeles, has said that while he fears comparing any event to the Holocaust, ''I've never seen anything like ISIS since the Holocaust.''

Just last week, J.J. Goldberg, editor at large of The Forward, an influential New York-based newspaper catering to American Jews, wrote, ''When we think of defeating ISIS, we should think not of the familiar fight against jihadist terrorism but of the world war between Nazi Germany and the Allies.''

The Holocaust Memorial Museum in Washington issued a report this month charging the Islamic State with ''crimes against humanity,'' ''genocide'' and ''mass atrocities to control, expel, and exterminate ethnic and religious minorities.''

On the other side are anxieties about ourselves and our reaction to the Islamic State. Days after its report was issued, the Holocaust Museum issued a statement of concern about political resistance to welcoming Syrian refugees to the United States. Recalling ''the consequences to Jews who were unable to flee Nazism,'' the statement urged Americans and their leaders to ''avoid condemning today's refugees as a group.''

It was not an abstract concern: soon Donald J. Trump had declared that he ''would certainly implement'' a database to track Muslims in the United States, drawing a fresh round of comparisons to Nazi Germany. On Twitter, people posted historical reminders of how the current slandering of American Muslims echoed past slandering of American Jews.

We are witnessing an argument between the primarily other-vigilant and the primarily self-vigilant. An argument, often appearing to lack a sensible center, between ''This has nothing to do with Islam'' and ''This has everything to do with Islam.'' An argument between those who fear Western softness in the face of conquest (''This is less a 'refugee crisis' and more an occupation,'' Monica Crowley wrote in The Washington Times last week) and those who fear a vengeful West will become the very thing it assails.

In the last world war, it all happened: appeasement and stigmatization, liberation and internment, moral clarity and moral dithering.

All these years later, we remain caught between fears of seeing mere people as groups and of minimizing groups as mere people.