In criticizing Clinton, hints that email may have been hacked.

ABSTRACT.

The central mystery -- who got into the system, if anyone -- may never be resolved because truly sophisticated hackers often leave no trace.

FULL TEXT.

When the F.B.I. director, James B. Comey, said on Tuesday that his investigators had no ''direct evidence'' that Hillary Clinton's email account had been ''successfully hacked,'' both private experts and federal investigators immediately understood his meaning: It very likely had been breached, but the intruders were far too skilled to leave evidence of their work.

Mr. Comey described, in fairly blistering terms, a set of email practices that left Mrs. Clinton's systems wide open to Russian and Chinese hackers, along with an array of others. She had no full-time cybersecurity professional monitoring her system. She took her BlackBerry everywhere she went, ''sending and receiving work-related emails in the territory of sophisticated adversaries.'' Her use of ''a personal email domain was both known by a large number of people and readily apparent.''

In the end, the risks created by Mrs. Clinton's insistence on keeping her communications on a private server may prove to be a larger issue than the relatively small amount of classified information that investigators said they found on her system. But the central mystery - who got into the system, if anyone - may never be resolved.

''Reading between the lines and following Comey's logic, it does sound as if the F.B.I. believes a compromise of Clinton's email is more likely than not,'' said Adam Segal, the author of ''Hacked World Order,'' who studies cyber issues at the Council on Foreign Relations. ''Sophisticated attackers would have known of the existence of the account, would have targeted it, and would not have been seen.''

Mr. Comey couched his concern on Tuesday by repeating the intelligence community's favorite phrase - ''we assess'' - four times, but ultimately reached no hard and fast conclusion. ''We assess it is possible that hostile actors gained access to Secretary Clinton's personal email account,'' he said.

But that was notable: Until Mr. Comey spoke, both Mrs. Clinton and her campaign had said her server - there were actually several, in succession - was never hacked. A State Department inspector general's report issued earlier this year reported what looked like several attempts at ''spear phishing'' - fake emails intended to get a person to click on a link that would install malware on a computer - but there is no evidence those links were activated.

Mrs. Clinton herself, as well as her campaign, has always maintained that the server was secure. President Obama backed her up in an interview last October on CBS' ''60 Minutes.'' ''I don't think it posed a national security problem,'' he said.

But Mr. Comey painted a different picture. ''Hostile actors gained access to the private commercial email accounts of people with whom Secretary Clinton was in regular contact,'' he said.

And that would have meant that following the trail of electronic breadcrumbs back to her server would have been a pretty simple task. After that, their ability to break in would have been a mix of skill and luck - but they had plenty of time to get it right.

Mrs. Clinton's best defense - one she cannot utter in public - is that whatever the risks of keeping her own email server, that server was certainly no more vulnerable than the State Department's. Had she held an unclassified account in the State Department's official system, as the rules required, she certainly would have been hacked.

Russian intruders were thoroughly inside that system for years - at least since 2007 - before the State Department shut its system down, several times, to perform a digital exorcism in late 2014, nearly two years after Mrs. Clinton left office.

Either out of embarrassment or to protect its sources of intelligence, the Obama administration has never publicly blamed Russia for stealing data from the State Department and White House unclassified systems, just as it has never publicly identified China as the culprit in the theft of security-clearance information on nearly 22 million Americans from the Office of Personnel Management.

Federal officials familiar with the server taken from Mrs. Clinton's house in Chappaqua, N.Y., speaking on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss the investigation, said that it did appear to have some moderately sophisticated security features. There was a means for authenticating the identity of the users on the system. There was some encryption capability, but it is not clear that it was used.

But security software is useless unless it is constantly updated, to reflect threats that change every day. Even then there are ways for a determined, state-sponsored hacker to get in. The best use a ''zero day'' flaw - a chink in the software that has never been discovered before, thus a name suggesting there are zero days of warning about its dangers - or wait for a user error, including clicking on a spear phishing link.

Perhaps Mr. Comey's most surprising suggestion was that Mrs. Clinton had used her private email while in the territory of what he called ''sophisticated adversaries.'' That usually means China and Russia, but could include visits elsewhere, including Eastern Europe.

James A. Lewis, a former government cybersecurity expert who now studies the cyber activities of nations at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, said, ''If she used it in Russia or China, they almost certainly picked it up.''

Once the hardware is in a foreign country, and on its phone networks, it is particularly vulnerable. Malware can be placed on it that could turn the phone into a listening device. One lurking question is whether Mrs. Clinton's own practice of taking the phone around the world may have made it susceptible to tinkering by a foreign government.

The State Department worries so much about corrupted cellphones that visitors to the secretary's suite on the seventh floor must place their devices in small lockers near the guard's desk. Mrs. Clinton, presumably, was exempted from the rule; she is famously shown in a photograph using her smartphone on a military plane.

Moreover, for truly sensitive data, the State Department does not use its own networks at all. It quietly uses a network run by one of the major intelligence agencies, according to officials familiar with the system. That suggests a lack of confidence that the department's classified systems can be fully trusted.

Since the disclosure that Mrs. Clinton used a private email, government officials - and many outside the government - have been monitoring cyberspace, looking to see whether any of her messages, or those directed to her, made their way into the public domain. Documents from the Democratic National Committee began circulating after it announced a breach that also appears to have been conducted by competing Russian intelligence.

But nothing from Mrs. Clinton has surfaced. That does not mean they were not stolen - only that they have not been made public.