Billy Bush Joins a Parade of Political Scions on TV.

What does it take to get a morning show gig these days? Being a member of a political dynasty can't hurt.

Billy Bush, the nephew of one president and the cousin of another, is joining the ''Today'' show as an anchor, NBC announced on Tuesday. It's a promotion for Mr. Bush, who has built his reputation on the West Coast as a lively and sought-after interviewer as host of ''Access Hollywood'' for the last 15 years.

Mr. Bush, who is moving to New York, will appear in the show's 9 a.m. hour, just missing a chance to overlap with a fellow political scion turned television star. Chris Cuomo, the son of one New York governor and the brother of another, is a popular figure on CNN's morning program ''New Day,'' which ends at 9 a.m.

Mr. Bush is not the first member of his family to land a job on ''Today.'' Jenna Bush Hager, a daughter of former President George W. Bush, has been a contributor to the show since 2009. Chelsea Clinton, the daughter of former President Bill Clinton and Hillary Clinton, the presidential candidate, and former secretary of state and senator, also worked for NBC News, although she left in 2014.

The addition of Mr. Bush is part of an upheaval in the morning shows. The new ''Today'' anchor, who has a facility with pop culture and lifestyle coverage, will compete with Kelly Ripa, whose ''Live'' program on ABC recently lost its co-host, Michael Strahan, to ''Good Morning America.''

Natalie Morales, another ''Today'' anchor, is taking over Mr. Bush's role at ''Access Hollywood.'' She is moving to Los Angeles but is expected to continue to make appearances on the NBC morning show.

In a memo on Tuesday, Noah Oppenheim, the NBC executive in charge of ''Today,'' reminded his staff about Mr. Bush's early television work. His first segment as a freelancer on WNBC-TV involved ''a painful chest-waxing incident,'' well before Steve Carell made that gag famous in ''The 40-Year-Old Virgin,'' Mr. Oppenheim noted.