Jobs report gives Democrats a lift; 
Solid upturn, with a rise in hourly earnings, could blunt Republican claims.

ABSTRACT.

A more tangible economic upswing could help Democrats keep the White House after the Obama administration's long struggle with a slow recovery.

FULL TEXT.

The surprisingly robust United States jobs report cheered Democrats hoping to retain the White House and capture the Senate next year, but it heralded a new atmosphere of uncertainty by flashing a green light to the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates, which could undermine economic growth.

The October report exceeded economists' expectations, with 271,000 new payroll positions. The jobless rate ticked down to 5 percent, and, perhaps most important, average hourly earnings rose 0.4 percent after showing no increase in September.

''We finally may be seeing some wage acceleration, and if it sticks, that would be a very big story,'' the economist Jared Bernstein, a former adviser in the Obama White House, wrote on his blog.

A more tangible economic upturn would almost certainly benefit Democrats, who want to keep the White House after two terms under a president who has struggled with a slow economic recovery. It could blunt Republicans' generalized demands for change, prompting them to focus on more granular issues, such as which party can better address wage growth and economic inequality.

''Good economic news for the country is bad political news for the Republicans, because it takes the air out of their argument that we need a big change from Obama's economic policies,'' said Geoff Garin, a Democratic pollster working for Priorities USA, a super PAC supporting Hillary Rodham Clinton.

Whether the issue is the Keystone XL pipeline, climate change policies or the Affordable Care Act, Mr. Garin added, ''it becomes harder and harder for the Republicans to successfully attack Obama as a job killer, and easier for Hillary Clinton and other Democrats to defend those policies.''

But growth remains weak by historical standards, and much of the electorate has remained in a sour mood about the economy's ability to deliver fatter paychecks to anyone but the richest Americans.

That disquiet has stoked the challenge of Senator Bernie Sanders, an independent from Vermont, against Mrs. Clinton, the Democratic front-runner, and on the Republican side it has powered the campaigns of political outsiders such as Ben Carson against party-establishment favorites like Jeb Bush.

Bill McInturff, the Republican half of a bipartisan polling team for The Wall Street Journal and NBC News, sounded a cautious note about the jobs report. While consumer confidence is at its highest level in years, he said, ''this has done nothing to lower the almost 12 straight years that a majority of Americans say they believe the country is headed off on the 'wrong track.'.''

''It is going to take a lot more than one positive jobs report to seriously dent the pessimism people feel about where the country is headed,'' he said.

Caution is warranted: Economic indicators have risen and fallen throughout the 68 months of growth since the recession and financial collapse that President Obama inherited.

The unemployment rate is less than half its 2009 peak, but these days the more consequential economic data for gauging the political climate may be wage growth. October's uptick in workers' earnings made the month's data encouraging, especially after the downbeat showing in September.

''The now-closely watched hourly earnings data showed the largest year-over-year increase since July 2009 - up 2.5 percent,'' Douglas Holtz-Eakin, an economic adviser to Republicans and former director of the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office, wrote after the jobs report was released. ''This represents real wage growth, which has been a missing ingredient. The only nit to pick was flat average weekly hours.''

But ''the more interesting issue,'' Mr. Holtz-Eakin added, ''is whether the strong October report represents a one-time blip in the aftermath of the weak August and September performance, or is an early sign of growth that will remain above the 2.2 percent average since the recovery began.''

There is a looming risk to continued growth: Interest rates are headed up.

The strong jobs report has cleared the way for the Fed to begin a long-awaited retreat from its economic stimulus campaign. The central bank, which has held short-term rates near zero since December 2008, is expected to act at its final meeting of the year in December.

The Fed does not want to stall growth, only to prevent the economy's overheating. It plans to raise rates more slowly than it has in past periods of growth. Officials expect it to raise rates by roughly one percentage point over the next year.

Even so, some liberal economists - including a minority of the Fed's own policy-making committee - warn that the central bank could undermine growth by raising rates prematurely. There is an old quip in economics that periods of growth never die of old age - they become recessions when the Fed increases interest rates.

''We should not take the continued strength of domestic demand growth for granted,'' Lael Brainard, a Fed governor, said in a speech last month. She said the weakness of the global economy made it risky for the United States to raise interest rates, which would strengthen the dollar and cut demand for exports.

In both parties, candidates and voters have shifted from emphasizing overall growth and jobs to focusing on economic inequality and the woes of the middle class.

But there are signs that Americans are starting to feel more confident about their own prospects, an important development because consumer spending accounts for about two-thirds of domestic economic activity.

Consumer sentiment over the last year has been higher than in any year since 2004, the University of Michigan reported last week. More people are working and wages are starting to rise more quickly, and the survey found that people had increased confidence that their finances would improve over the next five years.

''The most impressive aspect has been a newfound resilience by consumers to a host of negative developments,'' like the recent volatility of financial markets, said Richard Curtin, the chief economist for the Michigan Survey of Consumers.

Will it last? Holding rates near zero has encouraged borrowing and risk-taking, supporting faster economic growth. As the Fed takes its foot off the gas, lenders may raise borrowing costs for businesses and consumers faster than the Fed would like.

Since the financial crisis, every developed nation that has tried to raise interest rates has been forced to reverse course. Investors see about a one-in-five chance that the Fed, after it begins to raise rates, will return to zero within two years - implying that they expect higher rates to significantly undermine growth.

Donald J. Trump, a Republican presidential candidate, shares this bleak view. ''We're in a bubble, and when those rates are raised, a lot of bad things are going to happen,'' Mr. Trump said recently in New York. He suggested that the Fed was keeping rates low at the behest of the Obama administration, to postpone the crash.