Tensions flare after Sanders calls Clinton unqualified; 
Senator sharpens attacks as a more daunting test looms after recent wins.

ABSTRACT.

The two Democratic Party contenders are questioning the other's fitness to lead, with Senator Bernie Sanders now pressing his attack that Hillary Clinton is not qualified to be president.

FULL TEXT.

Tension flared in the race for the Democratic presidential nomination on Thursday, with each candidate questioning the other's fitness to lead and Senator Bernie Sanders pressing his attack that Hillary Clinton is not qualified to be president.

After weeks of subtle sniping, the frustration boiled over at a rally in Philadelphia on Wednesday night when Mr. Sanders took issue with recent criticism over his understanding of financial regulation policy and assailed Mrs. Clinton from multiple angles.

''She has been saying lately that she thinks that I am, quote-unquote, not qualified to be president,'' Mr. Sanders said. ''Let me just say in response to Secretary Clinton, I don't believe that she is qualified if she is, through her super PAC, taking tens of millions of dollars in special interest funds.''

He added: ''I don't think you are qualified if you have voted for the disastrous war in Iraq. I don't think you are qualified if you supported the Panama free-trade agreement.''

The tone in the Democratic race, which has been relatively cordial for months, has become more aggressive recently as Mr. Sanders has pulled off a string of primary victories capped by a resounding win in Wisconsin on Tuesday.

Mrs. Clinton, who did not explicitly say that Mr. Sanders was not qualified to be president, said on Wednesday that he had not done his ''homework'' when it comes to Wall Street reform - his signature campaign issue. Mr. Sanders has been criticized for offering vague responses to questions on the subject during an interview this week in New York with the editorial board of The Daily News.

The Clinton campaign pushed back against Mr. Sanders's attack on her qualifications, calling it the mark of a desperate candidate. Brian Fallon, a spokesman for Mrs. Clinton, called on the Vermont senator to take back his words and said he had reached a ''new low.''

But at another event in Philadelphia on Thursday morning, Mr. Sanders showed no sign that he was planning to apologize. While saying that he does respect Mrs. Clinton, he continued to express doubts about her qualifications and made clear that he did not intend to hold back.

''If Secretary Clinton thinks that I just come from a small state of Vermont, 'They are not used to this.' Well, we will get used to it fast,'' Mr. Sanders said. ''I'm not going to get beaten up. I'm not going to get lied about. We will fight back.''

As her campaign sent out fund-raising pitches highlighting Mr. Sanders's remarks, Mrs. Clinton tried to make light of the dispute as she rode the subway uptown to 170th Street in New York City on Thursday morning.

''Well, it's kind of a silly thing to say,'' Mrs. Clinton said. ''But I'm going to trust the voters of New York who know me and have voted for me three times.''

And in a halfhearted endorsement of Mr. Sanders's qualifications to be president, Mrs. Clinton added that he was better than the Republicans who are running.

''I don't know why he's saying that, but I will take Bernie Sanders over Donald Trump or Ted Cruz anytime,'' she said.