Clinton faces tight primary with Sanders in California.

ABSTRACT.

The poll by the Public Policy Institute of California showed Hillary Clinton leading Bernie Sanders among likely voters, 46 percent to 44 percent.

FULL TEXT.

Hillary Clinton and Bernie Sanders are locked in a tight race in California, the nation's most populous state and one that until recently seemed strongly in Mrs. Clinton's corner, a new statewide poll has found.

The poll, released on Wednesday night by the Public Policy Institute of California, showed Mrs. Clinton leading Mr. Sanders among likely voters, 46 percent to 44 percent - within the margin of sampling error. A survey by the organization in March found Mrs. Clinton with a lead of 48 percent to 41 percent over Mr. Sanders.

The survey came as both Mr. Sanders and Mrs. Clinton have stepped up their campaign appearances  in California in anticipation of the June 7 primary. Mr. Sanders, after initially saying he would not advertise on television  in the state - California is one of the most expensive states for television advertising, given its size and the number of media markets - took to the airwaves this week.

And Mrs. Clinton has quickly responded, with ads set to begin running on Friday in the Los Angeles, Fresno and Sacramento markets.

For Mrs. Clinton in particular, the ads are a significant reversal: Her campaign had halted its advertising after her decisive victories in the mid-Atlantic states on April 26, aside from a brief return to television in Kentucky.

Mr. Sanders's aides said he intended to spend nearly all his time in California until the state's primary.

Even with a loss in the primary, Mrs. Clinton would almost certainly win enough delegates to capture her party's nomination. That said, a loss to Mr. Sanders in this state - which she won in 2008 and which Bill Clinton won in the 1992 primaries - would provide a sour and deflating end to her primary campaign. It could also encourage Mr. Sanders to stay in the race through the Democratic National Convention in July, at a time when many Democrats would be asking him to step aside and join with Mrs. Clinton in turning the party's attention to defeating the presumptive Republican nominee, Donald J. Trump.

The new poll takes into account both Democrats and independent voters who said they would vote in the Democratic primary. Among Democrats alone, Mrs. Clinton leads Mr. Sanders 49 percent to 41 percent, according to the institute. But there has been a surge of people registering as independents, which Democrats say could be aiding Mr. Sanders.

The poll showed that either  Mrs. Clinton  or Mr. Sanders would defeat Mr. Trump in a hypothetical November contest, though Mr. Sanders appears to have the stronger position now. Mrs. Clinton is leading Mr. Trump among likely voters 49 percent to 39 percent; Mr. Sanders would beat him 53 percent to 36 percent.

The poll was based on a phone survey of 1,704 California adults taken from May 13 through Sunday. Of those, 996 were identified as likely voters. The margin of sampling error among that group was plus or minus four percentage points.