Professor Nega's war; 
Why an Ethiopian exile left the U.S. to take on an oppressive regime.

ABSTRACT.

An Ethiopian exile leaves the good life in Pennsylvania to fight on the frontlines of the decades-long conflict in the Horn of Africa.

FULL TEXT.

Berhanu Nega was once one of Bucknell University's most popular professors. An Ethiopian exile with a Ph.D. from the New School for Social Research in Manhattan, he taught one of the economics department's most sought-after electives, African Economic Development. When he wasn't leading seminars or puttering around his comfortable home in a wooded neighborhood five minutes from the Bucknell campus in rural Lewisburg, Pa., Nega traveled abroad for academic conferences and lectured on human rights at the European Parliament in Brussels.

A gregarious and active figure on campus, he rooted for the Philadelphia Eagles and the Cleveland Cavaliers, campaigned door-to-door for Barack Obama in 2008 and was known as one of the best squash players on the Bucknell faculty. He and his wife, an Ethiopian-born optometrist, raised two sons and sent them to top-ranked colleges, the University of Pennsylvania and Carnegie Mellon. On weekends he sometimes hosted dinners for other Bucknell professors and their families, regaling them with stories about Abyssinian culture and history over Ethiopian food he would prepare himself.

Nega remained vague about his past. But students curious enough to Google him would discover that the man who stood before them, outlining development policies in sub-Saharan Africa, was in fact intimately involved in the long-running hostility between Ethiopia and neighboring Eritrea, a conflict that has dragged on for half a century. By the start of the millennium, its newest incarnation, a border war over a patch of seemingly worthless ground just 250 square miles in size, devolved into a tense standoff, with the two nations each massing thousands of troops along the border from official and unofficial armies.

One proxy army fighting on the Eritrean side, a group of disaffected Ethiopians called Ginbot 7, was a force that Nega helped create, founding the movement in 2008 with another Ethiopian exile, Andargachew Tsege, in Washington. The Ethiopian government, which had previously detained Nega as a political prisoner for two years in Addis Ababa, now sentenced him to death in absentia.

In Ginbot 7, Tsege served as the political leader based in Eritrea; Nega was the group's intellectual leader and principal fund-raiser, collecting money from members of the Ethiopian diaspora in Europe and the United States. That all changed one day in June 2014, when Tsege, known to everyone as Andy, made a brief stopover in Sana, the capital of Yemen, on his way to Asmara, the capital of Eritrea. As he sat in the airport transit lounge, waiting to board his flight, Yemeni security forces, apparently acting in collusion with Ethiopian intelligence, arrested him and put him on a plane to Addis Ababa, where he was paraded on state television and currently faces a death sentence.

Days after Tsege's arrest and extradition, Nega volunteered to replace him in Eritrea. ''Was I going to remain an academic, sitting in an ivory tower criticizing things?'' he told me. ''Or was I going to do something as an engaged citizen?'' Nega put his house up for sale and took an indefinite leave of absence from the university.

The lights cut out  above Nega one chilly night this July, and the rebel chief sat in darkness in a bungalow in Asmara, Eritrea's 7,600-foot-high capital. Nega had spread a map on a coffee table, and he was showing me the route for a clandestine mission that he planned to undertake the following morning. At dawn, he and a comrade would drive 300 miles southwest to the mined, militarized border between Eritrea and Ethiopia to rendezvous with intelligence sources at a rebel base camp.

Nega, a burly, balding 58-year-old with an appealingly unassuming manner, rubbed his forehead as the lights flickered and then returned. In recent years, Ginbot 7 has grown, and it is now guided by an 80-member council of representatives spread around the world. As commander, Nega oversees several hundred rebel fighters in Eritrea, as well as an unknown number of armed members inside Ethiopia who carry out occasional attacks in the movement's name. During his frequent visits to the front lines, he spends his time meeting with fellow commanders, observing training and - ever the professor - leading history and democracy seminars using chalk and a blackboard in a ''classroom'' in the bush.

Ethiopia and Eritrea, now ferocious enemies, were once joined. Eritrea, an Italian colony from 1890 until 1941, was annexed by Ethiopia after World War II; it took a three-decades-long war for the Eritreans to liberate themselves, in 1991. The neighbors remained at peace until 1998, when a simmering dispute over the Yirga triangle, a piece of rocky land along the border that had never been clearly demarcated in colonial maps, exploded into two years of tank and trench warfare in which 100,000 died. Today, despite a United Nations-supervised mediation that awarded the disputed territory to Eritrea, Ethiopia continues to occupy the border village of Badame. Tens of thousands of troops face each other across a landscape of mines, bunkers, sniper posts and other fortifications.

Ethiopia, while an American ally and an economic leader by African standards, is notoriously repressive. Since last November, according to Human Rights Watch, state security forces have killed more than 400 protesters in the Oromia region, which surrounds Addis Ababa. Protests have recently spread to the Amhara region, as well; in August, security forces shot dead roughly 100 demonstrators and injured hundreds more.

Thousands of Oromos, a minority group that makes up about a third of the population, have been jailed without trial on suspicion of supporting the Oromo Liberation Front, a secessionist group. The Ethiopian marathoner Feyisa Lilesa, who won the silver medal at the Olympics this year, drew global attention to the government's abuses when he held his crossed arms over his head at the finish line in solidarity with his fellow Oromos; he says he fears returning home and is seeking political asylum.

Across the room in Nega's bungalow, four fellow rebel commanders, all members of the Ethiopian diaspora, were finishing their supper. The men were part of a revolving contingent of commanders who returned to Asmara from time to time to check their email and escape the primitive conditions in the bush. ''We are five right now,'' Nega said, introducing me to his comrades from Dallas; Arlington, Va.; Calgary, Canada; and Luxembourg. ''Another, from the United Kingdom, is returning here tomorrow morning. We'll be six when he comes. Last week we were eight - at one point we were 11.''

When I first met  Nega, in late May 2016, the conditions were decidedly more comfortable. After 10 months in Asmara, Nega had flown back to the United States to attend meetings and the graduation of his younger son, Iyassu, from the University of Pennsylvania.

We met at the Café Dupont on Dupont Circle in Washington, joined by his sister Hiwot, who runs a technology start-up in New York, and Iyassu, a 21-year-old former high school track star who was starting work at a New York investment bank in the fall. Over white wine and chicken salad, the conversation touched on Lin-Manuel Miranda's commencement address and Nega's excitement over crossing paths, after the ceremony, with Donald J. Trump and Vice President Joseph R. Biden. (Trump's daughter and Biden's granddaughter were members of Iyassu's graduating class.)

Nega is part of a generation of Ethiopians who grew up amid violence and tumult. Over lunch, he recalled what it was like to be a high school student when a Marxist junta, the Soviet-backed Derg, overthrew Emperor Haile Selassie and ushered in a brutal dictatorship. Nega had grown up privileged, the son of a wealthy entrepreneur, and he watched as his father's vast commercial corn and soybean farms were seized and security forces began arresting, imprisoning and executing thousands of dissidents, including many students. He and his two older sisters joined a resistance movement called the Ethiopian People's Revolutionary Party. They went underground, living in safe houses, eluding the police. His eldest sister was later captured and disappeared in the Derg's prisons.

As the crackdown in Addis Ababa intensified, the E.P.R.P. sent Nega north to Tigray Province, the center of a growing guerrilla war against the Derg; there, he carried out attacks on government forces. In 1978 a power struggle erupted within the E.P.R.P. leadership, and Nega was thrown into prison. He was released one day before guards turned their guns on the remaining prisoners, killing 15. Nega escaped to Sudan, living as a refugee in Khartoum for nearly two years, then obtained political asylum in the United States in 1980.

He earned his bachelor's degree from the State University of New York at New Paltz, where he also played on the soccer team. While studying for his doctorate at the New School for Social Research, he lived in Brooklyn and wrote his dissertation on the failures of Ethiopian agriculture under the Communist regime.

In 1991, after a decade's struggle, three rebel groups - the Tigrayan People's Liberation Front, the Oromo Liberation Front and the Eritrean People's Liberation Front - defeated the Derg and marched into Addis Ababa. The new government, led by the Tigrayan rebel leader Meles Zenawi, set about rebuilding the war-shattered nation. Nega finally had reason for optimism. He knew Meles well, and after the Tigrayans consolidated power, Nega obtained a leave of absence from Bucknell and flew with his wife and two sons, both toddlers, back to Addis Ababa, determined to help rebuild the country.

But Nega's enthusiasm for the new government wore off quickly. At Addis Ababa University, where he taught part time, administrators cracked down on dissent. When Nega encouraged his students to press for academic freedoms, the police assaulted them and other demonstrators; later, as unrest spread through the city, they shot 41 people dead. Nega spent a month in jail for abetting the protests.

In May 2005, with the economy growing rapidly and the government's popularity apparently high, Ethiopia held elections, the first truly multiparty vote in Ethiopia's history, and invited international observers to attend. But the results were not to Meles's liking. Nega's Coalition for Unity and Democracy won 137 of the 138 seats on the City Council in Addis Ababa. Nega was poised to become mayor, but the government denied his party the victory and jailed him along with other C.U.D. leaders. International pressure helped to secure Nega's release after 21 months, and he returned to the United States.

When Nega helped found the Ginbot 7 movement in 2008, the year he returned to teaching at Bucknell, he explained that the movement would seek to ''organize civil disobedience and help the existing armed movements'' inside and outside Ethiopia and ''put pressure on the government, and the international community, to come to a negotiation.''

While Ginbot 7 started to foment its resistance, Ethiopia was busy rebranding itself as an economic success story. Following South Korean and Chinese models of state-directed development, Meles borrowed from state-owned banks and used Western aid money to invest heavily in dams, airlines, agriculture, education and health care. Ethiopia's economy took off, averaging nearly 11 percent growth per year for the last decade, one of the highest rates in Africa. At the same time, the country was becoming a bulwark against the spread of radical Islam in the Horn of Africa. In July 2015 President Obama, on an African tour, paid the first visit ever to Ethiopia by a sitting American president.

Yet in the classroom and abroad, Nega argued that Ethiopia's transformation was a mirage, created to placate Western observers troubled by the lack of democracy. Two months before Obama arrived, the government presided over what was widely considered a sham election. But Obama, making it clear that security trumped other concerns in the Horn of Africa, stood beside Meles's successor, Prime Minister Hailemariam Desalegn, and described the government as being ''democratically elected.''

''I was shocked,'' Nega told me. ''I understand the reality of power and why he supports the Ethiopian government, but to say it is 'democratically elected'? I was disgusted.''

While in Asmara,  Nega spends most of his time hunkered down either in his residence or at a borrowed office in the center of town - one of the few places in the city with a high-speed internet connection. This allows him to catch up regularly on Skype with his sons and his wife. ''I don't think she's very happy about my being here,'' he acknowledged. ''We have really stopped talking about it.''

Immediately after its independence in the early 1990s, under Isaias Afwerki, a rebel leader turned president, Eritrea was briefly considered one of the hopes of Africa. But after the border war between 1998 and 2000, Eritrea's leadership turned inward, growing increasingly suspicious of the outside world. In 2009 the United Nations Security Council imposed sanctions on Eritrea, including an arms embargo and a travel ban and a freeze on the assets of top Eritrean officials, for providing weapons to the Shabab, the radical Islamist group that has carried out hundreds of terrorist attacks in Somalia and Kenya.

With virtually no investment coming into the country, Asmara has become a city frozen in time. Two donkeys meandered down Harnet Avenue, the capital's main boulevard. As we watched the crowds walk down the tidy avenue lined by an imposing red brick cathedral, a 1930s-era Art Deco movie theater and crumbling Italian bakeries and cappuccino bars, Nega defended his decision to turn to the dictatorship for support.

''Do we really have to discuss the kind of dictatorships that the U.S. sleeps with?'' he asked me. ''Here is a country that was willing to give us sanctuary, a country that had once been part of Ethiopia. I look at any of these people, I talk to them, and they are just like me, they are as Ethiopian as I am. Why should I not get help from them?''

Back at the bungalow, he led me down the corridor and showed me where he slept: a monastic chamber furnished with a single bed, an armoire and a night table. He retrieved from the freezer a chilled bottle of Absolut and poured two glasses. We sat in the concrete courtyard, beside a clothesline draped with Nega's laundry. The power failed again, casting us into total darkness, then returned a few seconds later. The contrast with his previous life in the States - cheering for the Lewisburg Green Dragons, his son's high school track team; vacationing on the beaches of Maryland and North Carolina with his extended family - could hardly have been more extreme.

''If you like comfort, and that's what drives you, you'll never do this,'' he told me. ''But sometimes you get really surprised. Once you have a commitment to something, all these things that you thought were normal in your day-to-day life become unnecessary luxuries.''