Bush's presidential campaign perhaps a last gasp for WASPs.

ABSTRACT.

The travails of his presidential campaign can be seen as perhaps the last, wheezing gasp of the WASP power structure.

FULL TEXT.

Tennis. Boating. Summers at Walker's Point.

Life among the white Anglo-Saxon Protestant elite (or WASPs, in sociological shorthand) was good for a young John Ellis Bush.

James Bruner, whose father was the Bush family pastor at St. Ann's Episcopal Church in the Maine town of Kennebunkport, remembers Mr. Bush, known as Jeb, as a larger-than-life presence at the Kennebunk River Club. His enduring image is of a youthful Mr. Bush ''playing tennis in tennis whites'' - a white Lacoste shirt, white shorts and canvas sneakers.

''I'll never forget Jeb kind of stepping back to take a high popper - a kind of lob - and doing an overheard smash that was so loud that it sent the ball down and then up onto the roof behind his opponents,'' Mr. Bruner said.

''For me,'' Mr. Bruner concluded, ''he was like the big cheese on the court.''

But that era of polite and high society - on the courts and playing fields of New England, in the halls of boarding schools and in the corridors of government - is fast fading. And in many ways, the travails of Mr. Bush's presidential campaign can be seen as perhaps the last, wheezing gasp of the WASP power structure.

Against a frustrated, profoundly un-WASP-like Republican electorate that craves the visceral pugnaciousness of Donald J. Trump or the outsider anger of Senator Ted Cruz, Mr. Bush's family values - of cordial restraint, of civil discourse, of earnest public service - can seem almost quaint.

Mr. Bush tells voters who wonder why he cannot summon Mr. Trump's TV-friendly fury that he ''wasn't brought up that way.'' He struggles with a basic task in politics - bragging - conceding that, when he does, he feels ''the looming presence of Barbara Bush,'' his boast-averse mother. And in an age of topic-changing sound bites, he is oddly determined to respond to every inquiry.

''I've had 62 years of life that's been jammed into my DNA that when someone asks you a question, you answer it,'' he said recently.

Longtime friends still speak with admiration of Mr. Bush's anachronistic outlook, sounding a bit like Miss Manners tsk-tsking the political world for leaving its elbows on the table.

C. Boyden Gray, who served as White House counsel under Mr. Bush's father, George Bush, ticked through the code of conduct the Bush dynasty has long embodied: ''Civility and good manners were kind of assumed,'' he said.

''You would be generous to a loser, you would not boast about your victory, you would be civil during an engagement, but you'd use every trick you had, every skill you had to win,'' Mr. Gray continued. ''They represented a whole generation of people, and I think a whole way of looking at things has been lost.''

Many voters, however, are eager for something less, well, dignified. Mr. Bush has struggled to gain traction with his party's base and sits at single digits in the polls. A new Gallup poll also showed his net favorability numbers among Republicans falling to 44 percent, from 54 percent in July.

Recently, Tom Emanuel of Laconia, N.H., stood at a Bush event here to say he was leaning toward supporting Mr. Trump, whose dynamism and contrarian nature he admired. Mr. Bush, channeling his respectful roots, responded by first saying ''some good things'' about Mr. Trump.

After the event, Mr. Emanuel said Mr. Bush had not yet won him over, but he sounded a nostalgic note for what Mr. Bush represented.

''He obviously has manners, he's restrained, he's not going to go out and nail somebody because he doesn't like them, he doesn't come across a dirty politician,'' Mr. Emanuel said. ''So if I say I'm leaning toward Trump, I also have a sentimental place in my voting heart for Jeb Bush, as well.''

It was not always this way. For decades, the blue-blooded Bush dynasty occupied an elevated position in the nation's social and civic fabric. Prescott Bush, the family patriarch, was a Republican senator from Connecticut. His son George worked his way through the ranks of government - congressman, ambassador, director of the Central Intelligence Agency, vice president - before becoming the 41st president, whose oldest son, George W. Bush, would become the 43rd.

''I would use the word 'old-school,''' said Gregory W. Slayton, whom George W. Bush appointed chief of mission to Bermuda, and who is now supporting Senator Marco Rubio. ''Humility is something I love about the Bush family. That's an admirable leadership trait that has been completely lost, at least for many of our candidates.''

But Jeb Bush, like his brother - who moved to Texas and adopted a swagger - has at times seemed eager to escape his familial roots. He married a Mexican woman he met on a trip to Mexico, and the two lived briefly in Venezuela before making their home in Florida, immersing themselves in Miami's Cuban-American diaspora. By faith, he is officially no longer a WASP; he converted to his wife's religion, becoming a practicing Roman Catholic who carries a baby Jesus and rosary beads in his pocket.

At a recent event in Coralville, Iowa, Mr. Bush pointedly rejected the notion that he was part of the so-called Republican establishment.

''I got married when I was 21 years old, my bride was 20, she's from Mexico - that's not part of the establishment,'' he said. ''I'm bilingual, I'm bicultural. Apparently, that's not part of the establishment.''

Yet, at an elemental level, John Ellis Bush very much remains Prescott Bush's grandson, George Bush's son and George W. Bush's brother, vying to take his place in the family profession - and to become, he hopes, Bush 45.

But history, which long buoyed families like his, may now be working against him.

''Politics has never been totally gentlemanly, and now it's not gentlemanly at all, so the idea that this process would reward someone with an innate sense of manners and deference is crazy,'' said Jon Meacham, the author of ''Destiny and Power,'' a biography of the 41st president.

''The lesson of 2016 is that none of the old rules apply.''