China rebuts American criticism on overcapacity; 
Investment, official says, helped global economy after 2008 financial crisis.

ABSTRACT.

Washington did not complain when China's spending helped global growth, a Chinese official said, adding that the impact of closing factories was hard to estimate.

FULL TEXT.

The Chinese finance minister jabbed back on Monday at complaints from his American counterpart that China's glut of factories making unwanted mountains of steel, aluminum and other products were overwhelming foreign markets and makers.

The finance minister, Lou Jiwei, suggested that foreign officials should curb their complaints about industrial production surpluses because their governments had cheered on China's investment spree during the global financial crisis that began in 2008. That spree helped create the production gluts now worrying policy makers in Beijing and, increasingly, others around the world.

''At that time, the whole world applauded and thanked China,'' Mr. Lou told a news briefing near the end of a day of annual meetings in Beijing between senior Chinese and American officials. ''Now they're saying that China has a production glut that is a drag upon the world. But what did they say at the time?''

Mr. Lou was responding to questions about complaints by the secretary of the Treasury, Jacob J. Lew, that China's huge surpluses were being sold so cheaply on international markets that they were distorting the global economy.

Mr. Lew stressed those worries on Sunday at a university forum in Beijing, and he raised them again at the opening of the talks.

''The United States supports efforts to reduce excess capacity and leverage in the economy,'' Mr. Lew said at the opening session of the talks, the Strategic and Economic Dialogue, held this year on the grounds of the Diaoyutai State Guesthouse in Beijing.

''Excess capacity has a distorting and damaging effect on global markets,'' Mr. Lew said. He added that defusing the problem was ''critical to the function and stability of international markets.''

The talks, set to end on Tuesday, also cover foreign policy and international security tensions, such as North Korea's nuclear weapons and China's territorial disputes with neighbors in the South China Sea. There was no sign of either side shifting its position in those disputes in the meeting's opening remarks by President Xi Jinping and Secretary of State John Kerry.

But Mr. Kerry said the annual talks, which started in a smaller form a decade ago, remained ''one of the best opportunities that we have to discuss our differences and to seek creative ways to narrow them or to eliminate them altogether.''

China's exports of cut-price steel, aluminum and other products have become a contentious international issue, prompting anti-dumping tariffs and feeding into the American presidential race. Donald J. Trump and Senator Bernie Sanders have both argued  that blue-collar workers have lost jobs because of skewed trading rules. The Department of Commerce this year has begun putting heavy tariffs on some Chinese steel makers for selling below cost.

Mr. Lou said there was nothing wrong with Mr. Lew's raising the excess capacity problem in the talks. But he suggested that Mr. Lew had his eyes on critics back in the United States. ''They're under pressure domestically,'' he said.

Mr. Lou said the Chinese government was now ''squarely facing up'' to the massive amounts of unwanted industrial output. Since earlier this year, Mr. Xi and other leaders have said cutting that output must be a key part of their program to reinvigorate growth.

The Chinese Communist Party leadership fears that sweeping industrial closures could kindle widespread worker protests like those that erupted in several northeastern rust belt cities in 2002.

Mr. Lou also told reporters that the Chinese government had no precise estimate of the numbers of workers who would have to be laid off from steel mills, mines and other industrial plants as party of that program. A labor official said this year that cutbacks in the steel and coal sectors alone could lead to layoffs of 1.8 million workers.

Mr. Lou declined to offer his own figure for layoffs. The government cannot control the economy through central planning in the way it once did, Mr. Lou said. ''So it's very hard to estimate how many people you reduce if you reduce steel production by 10,000 tons,'' he said.