Netanyahu and Obama: A tortured relationship; 
Divided by ideology, their history is one of mistrust and perceived slights.

ABSTRACT.

When Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu arrived at the White House on Monday, he and President Obama had reasons to put the past behind them.

FULL TEXT.

For President Obama, it was a day of celebration. He had just signed the most important domestic measure of his presidency, his health care program. So when Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel arrived at the White House for a hastily arranged visit, it was probably not the main thing on his mind.

To White House officials, it was a show of respect to make time for Mr. Netanyahu on that day back in March 2010. But Mr. Netanyahu did not see it that way. He felt squeezed in, not accorded the rituals of such a visit. No photographers were invited to record the moment. ''That wasn't a good way to treat me,'' he complained to an American afterward.

The tortured relationship between Barack and Bibi, as they call each other, has been a story of crossed signals, misunderstandings, slights perceived and real. Burdened by mistrust, divided by ideology, the leaders of the United States and Israel talked past each other for years until the rupture over Mr. Obama's push for a nuclear agreement with Iran led to the spectacle of Mr. Netanyahu denouncing the president's efforts before a joint meeting of Congress.

Mr. Netanyahu was to arrive at the White House on Monday for his first visit in more than a year. They will discuss a new security agreement and ways to counter Iran.

Both leaders have reasons to put the past behind them. But few believe their relationship can ever be more than coolly transactional. Undergirding their personal disconnect are different worldviews. Mr. Obama sees Mr. Netanyahu as captured by a hard-line philosophy that blocks progress. Mr. Netanyahu considers Mr. Obama hopelessly naÃ ̄ve about one of the world's most volatile neighborhoods.

''They have a fraught relationship, and it's fueled by a belief on the part of both of them that the other is trying to screw them,  trip them up, thwart their policies, corner them, ambush them,'' said Martin Indyk, the president's former special envoy to the Middle East. ''They each have a number of cases where they feel the other acted in bad faith.''

Rising Tensions.

Mr. Obama and Mr. Netanyahu first met in 2007 when their aides hastily arranged a chat at Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport, in a janitor's office. Mr. Netanyahu, then in the opposition, was heading home, and Mr. Obama, running for president, was returning from the campaign trail. They ''actually had chemistry,''  said Benjamin J. Rhodes, the president's deputy national security adviser.

Mr. Netanyahu was impressed. ''He's got it, he can beat Hillary,'' he told advisers afterward, according to  Uzi Arad, Mr. Netanyahu's former national security adviser, referring to Hillary Rodham Clinton, who was also seeking the Democratic nomination.

They met again, in July 2008, when Mr. Obama had secured the Democratic nomination and was visiting Jerusalem. The day before, a Palestinian had rammed a bulldozer into Israelis at a bus stop. After talking about security, Mr. Netanyahu suggested that they walk to the attack site. Mr. Obama demurred, seeing it as showmanship.

Once he was president, Mr. Obama made obtaining a Middle East peace agreement a priority, announcing the appointment of former Senator George J. Mitchell as special envoy two days after taking office. ''I really want to try to do something here,'' Mr. Mitchell recalled the president telling him.

As a start, Mr. Obama decided to press Israel to freeze settlement construction in the occupied West Bank. Rahm Emanuel, his chief of staff, urged a strong stand, saying that otherwise Mr. Netanyahu, now prime minister, would ''walk all over us,'' as Mrs. Clinton, then the secretary of state, put it in her memoir.

The decision was included in a White House briefing paper without asking Mr. Mitchell first. Mr. Mitchell supported the idea. But others did not. ''My advice was not to do it,'' recalled James B. Cunningham, then ambassador to Israel. ''It didn't seem to me to be the right way to start building a relationship.''

When Mr. Netanyahu came to Washington in May 2009, he felt blindsided by the demand. Emerging from nearly two hours alone with Mr. Obama, the prime minister ''looked ashen,'' Mr. Arad said, from ''the direct body blow.''

Settlement Issue.

At the heart of the trouble, according to Dennis B. Ross, another former American special envoy, was a decision by Mr. Obama that he needed to establish distance from Israel to build credibility in the Arab world.

In his new book, ''Doomed to Succeed,'' and in an interview, Mr. Ross said Mr. Obama had told Jewish leaders that he would not continue President George W. Bush's policy of allowing ''no daylight'' between the United States and Israel. Mr. Ross attributed this to Malcolm Hoenlein, chief executive of the Conference of Presidents of Major American Jewish Organizations.

In an interview last week, Mr. Hoenlein described the Jewish leaders' meeting with Mr. Obama. ''I said, 'The lesson of history is there shouldn't be daylight between the two countries because their enemies will exploit it,''' he recalled. ''He said, 'Eight years, no daylight. Eight years, no progress.'.''

Mr. Ross argues that distancing from Israel has never generated the Arab cooperation that presidents expect. But aides said Mr. Obama simply believed in honestly airing differences, not creating distance. ''This was not the guiding basis of our policy,'' Mr. Rhodes said. ''The guiding basis was to be energetic for a two-state solution.''

Either way, the settlement freeze became the defining issue. Mr. Netanyahu finally agreed to a 10-month moratorium, but when Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. visited Israel in March 2010, he was caught off guard by the announcement of a new housing project in East Jerusalem. Mr. Netanyahu assured him it was done without his knowledge, but Mr. Obama was furious, leading to the tense meeting at the White House, without the photographs, a session made worse by exaggerated stories of shabby behavior in the Israeli news media.

The Palestinians resisted talks until three weeks before the freeze was to expire and Mr. Netanyahu refused to extend it. The process collapsed before really beginning.

Disillusioned, Mr. Mitchell resigned, convinced that Washington had let the settlement issue become too central.

Division Over Iran.

The relationship further deteriorated during the 2012 presidential race when Mr. Obama's Republican opponent, Mitt Romney, traveled to Jerusalem and Mr. Netanyahu embraced him. But the president's victory ushered in a thaw; he helped broker a truce to fighting in Gaza that fall and decided to make Israel the first foreign destination of his second term.

''Several of us were arguing we have to wait for the moment,'' recalled Mr. Rhodes. ''He said, 'I just need to go to Israel because we can't simply wait for all the stars to align.'.''

The visit in March 2013 became ''the high-water mark in their relationship,'' according to Mr. Rhodes. Mr. Obama spoke Hebrew, quoted the Talmud and visited the grave of Theodor Herzl, the father of modern Zionism. He charmed Sara Netanyahu, the prime minister's wife, at a dinner and held her chair out at the public state dinner. Mr. Netanyahu responded by settling a dispute with Turkey at Mr. Obama's request.

Then came Mr. Obama's decision not to follow through on threats of airstrikes against Syria if it was found to use chemical weapons. When it did, he instead struck a deal to eliminate Syria's chemical arsenal.

As it turned out, the United States had been in secret talks with Iran brokered by Oman. ''What the Americans did is try to deceive us,'' said  Yaakov Amidror, another former national security adviser to Mr. Netanyahu. ''They didn't tell us about Oman. That was not the turning point, but it gave those who still had some trust in America a very good reason to go to the other side.''

With the Iran deal finalized, the two sides have talked about moving on. But it will not be easy, as was made clear last week when Mr. Netanyahu appointed a diplomacy chief who had accused Mr. Obama of anti-Semitism.

''There's a lot of water under the bridge,'' Mr. Indyk said, ''and it's very hard to imagine they can do anything but paper over their differences at this point for the sake of common interests.''