Clinton and Warren team up on Trump.

ABSTRACT.

Elizabeth Warren, the Massachusetts senator, campaigned with Hilary Clinton in Cincinnati, the first event that featured the two Democrats together.

FULL TEXT.

Hillary Clinton and Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts held their first joint campaign event on Monday, striking a populist tone as they sought to address the anger over income inequality that has swept the electorate while skewering Donald J. Trump as contributing to the middle class's economic woes.

''I got into this race because I wanted to even the odds for people who have the odds stacked against them,'' Mrs. Clinton said. ''To build an economy that works for everyone, not just those at the top, we have got to go big and we have got to go bold.''

The event was the first time the two Democrats had campaigned onstage together and was the culmination of an unlikely political alliance between Mrs. Clinton, who is often associated with her husband's centrist economic agenda, and Ms. Warren, who has assailed policies of the Bill Clinton era by tying the deregulation of Wall Street to the 2008 financial crisis.

But those differences seemed a distant memory on Monday, as Mrs. Clinton and Ms. Warren echoed similar liberal themes and took the stage together united against the common enemy: Mr. Trump.

Mrs. Warren praised Mrs. Clinton's advocacy for families and children, saying she had ''steady hands, but most of all, she has a good heart.'' And she presented the presumptive Democratic nominee as singularly suited to defeat Mr. Trump.

''She knows what it takes to defeat a thin-skinned bully who is driven by greed and hate,'' said Ms. Warren, who has often been on the receiving side of Mr. Trump's Twitter attacks. ''She doesn't whine. She doesn't run to Twitter to call her opponents fat pigs or dummies.''

Mrs. Clinton and Ms. Warren grasped hands on stage in the grand corridor of the Cincinnati Museum Center at Union Terminal, lined with murals of workers in the fields and on factory floors. Supporters in the crowd of about 2,600 waved ''Girl Power'' signs in hopes of seeing the duo together on the ticket in the fall.

While an all-female ticket is unlikely, James Hamilton, the Washington lawyer leading Mrs. Clinton's vice-presidential search, has begun vetting Ms. Warren and other candidates. Ever since she endorsed Mrs. Clinton this month, Ms. Warren has been a powerful surrogate, attacking Mr. Trump and visiting the Clinton campaign's headquarters in New York to encourage young staffers with a simple message: ''Don't screw this up!''

In an address that spoke to the ''frustration, the fear, the anxiety and, yes, the anger'' over an economy in which the wealthiest Americans have thrived as middle-class wages have remained virtually stagnant, Mrs. Clinton struck many of the same notes, hitting themes that elevated Ms. Warren in the Senate and fueled the candidacy of Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont in the hard-fought Democratic nominating contest.

Mrs. Clinton said that when Ms. Warren railed against Wall Street and corporate excesses from her perch in the Senate, ''she is speaking for all of us.''

In this battleground state with inordinate weight on general elections, Mrs. Clinton delivered a forceful promise to strengthen labor unions, close loopholes that give corporations tax breaks when moving jobs overseas, raise the minimum wage and make college affordable.

''Why do the richest Americans and biggest corporations get away with manipulating the tax code so they pay lower rates than you do?'' Mrs. Clinton asked.

Both women framed their remarks on Monday by portraying Mr. Trump as a selfish corporate titan whose business record has not benefited American workers.

Mrs. Clinton ticked off a laundry list of little-known Trump enterprises. ''Trump suits were made in Mexico,'' she said. ''Trump furniture is made in Turkey, instead of Cleveland. Trump barware is made in Slovenia, instead of Toledo.''

Ms. Warren roused the crowd with criticism of the real estate developer, delivered in her characteristically folksy, but powerful style. ''He will crush you into the dirt to get whatever he wants. That's who he is,'' Ms. Warren said.

''Donald Trump says he'll make America great again,'' Ms. Warren said. ''I ask, for who exactly?''

It was a potent one-two punch by the two most prominent women in the Democratic Party, as Mrs. Clinton echoed the criticism, saying Mr. Trump ''reminds us every day that he's not in it for the American people'' and Ms. Warren, she said, ''exposes him for what he is.''