Trampling Latinos' sensibilities.

ABSTRACT.

The southern tip of Florida has been a blazing exception to the rise in support for the New York businessman.

FULL TEXT.

Had Republicans nominated Marco Rubio or Jeb Bush for president, Tomás Regalado would have hurled himself into the task of electing their candidate.

''I would have been all in,'' Mr. Regalado, the Republican mayor of Miami, said in his office overlooking Biscayne Bay.

Instead, Mr. Regalado, a former broadcast journalist, intends to sit out the presidential race. He considers Mrs. Clinton untrustworthy, but views Mr. Trump as a poisonous candidate who has aggravated racial divisions. In Miami, Mr. Regalado said, Mr. Trump is seen as ''a bully, as a person who despises people that don't look like him.''

Mr. Regalado, 69, said he had been inundated with angry email, some of it mentioning Mr. Trump by name. ''Sometimes they say, 'Yeah, Trump is right, you guys have to all go back to your country,''' said Mr. Regalado, who was born in Havana and emigrated as a teenager. ''This is my country. I can't go back to Cuba.''

Since Mr. Trump became the presumptive Republican nominee, he has consolidated support from national party leaders and from many in the rank and file. He has pulled nearly even with Mrs. Clinton in many polls, including in Florida.

But the southern tip of the nation's most populous swing state has been a blazing exception to the trend - most of all in Miami-Dade County, a densely populated bastion of diversity that cast about a tenth of the statewide vote in 2012.

If Mr. Trump has effectively staked his campaign nationwide on strong support from whites, Florida may present the most punishing test of his strategy, as Hispanics here, including conservative-leaning Cuban-Americans who twice helped George W. Bush carry the state, turn away from his candidacy en masse.

Mr. Trump has trampled local sensibilities in myriad ways, from his belittling treatment of Mr. Rubio and Mr. Bush to his personal coarseness, slashing comments on immigration and endorsement of open relations with the Castro government.

In addition to Mr. Regalado, two Republican members of Congress from Florida, Ileana Ros-Lehtinen and Carlos Curbelo, have said they will not back Mr. Trump, as has Carlos A. Gimenez, the Republican mayor of Miami-Dade County. All four are Cuban-American.

Early polls show voters in the area resoundingly rejecting Mr. Trump: A Quinnipiac University poll this month found Mr. Trump about even with Mrs. Clinton statewide, but losing a band of southeastern counties, including Miami-Dade and Broward, by 38 percentage points.

Roxana M. Leon, 63, an independent voter raised in Chile, said she wanted major change in Washington, but found Mr. Trump too objectionable to support. ''He's not the right person,'' said Ms. Leon, who works as a secretary. ''I am sick and tired of the old establishment, but I will vote for Clinton.''

Some voters who were once intrigued by Mr. Trump now regard him with distaste. Carlos Guerrero, 55, said he had been willing to ''look the other way'' on many of Mr. Trump's speeches - including ''the way he speaks of Latin people'' - because he liked Mr. Trump's overall message.

But Mr. Guerrero, a Republican who described himself as a religious Catholic, said he recoiled when Mr. Trump began attacking Heidi Cruz, Senator Ted Cruz's wife. ''He is not qualified to run this country,'' Mr. Guerrero, who is an actor, said of Mr. Trump. ''This country was made by people who believed in God.''

Should Mr. Trump get trounced in South Florida, he might be hard-pressed to make up the difference elsewhere.

Trump supporters believe he can improve upon Mitt Romney's performance in North Florida, in the conservative panhandle region and in the Jacksonville area. But Mr. Romney found it difficult in 2012 to overcome a catastrophic defeat in Miami. He cut into President Obama's support across most of Florida, but the president held steady in Tampa and Orlando, two other diverse cities, and expanded his margin of victory in Miami-Dade by about 69,000 votes over his 2008 lead.

Mr. Obama ultimately captured Florida by about 74,000 votes.

Mr. Trump has his supporters here. Norma Samour, the owner of a shopping center, said she was a habitual Republican voter and would probably back Mr. Trump despite some mixed feelings. ''He will make the United States more like it was 15 years ago,'' said Ms. Samour, 56, who was raised in El Salvador and is of Palestinian descent. ''People all over the world used to respect the United States.''