Falling Deficit to Reverse Course in '16 as U.S. Ages.

WASHINGTON --  A six-year trend of declining federal budget deficits will end this year, sooner than expected, the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office reported on Tuesday -- a development that injects new questions into the presidential race for candidates proposing trillions of dollars in new tax cuts or spending.

Budget analysts had already forecast that annual deficits would begin growing again as the nation confronts the health and retirement costs of its aging population, but the shift was expected to happen after 2018. The budget office now says the reckoning will arrive sooner, in large part because Congress and President Obama agreed late last year to permanently extend a raft of tax cuts for corporations and individuals.

The deficit for this fiscal year, which ends Sept. 30, is projected to be $544 billion -- $105 billion more than last year, and $130 billion more than the budget office had projected last August. Over 10 years, through fiscal year 2025, deficits would add up to $1.5 trillion more than the budget office had predicted.

After small increases in deficits over the next two years, the budget office said, they will go up more sharply after 2018 and begin exceeding 3 percent of the nation's total economic output, or gross domestic product. That is the limit that economists generally consider sustainable in a growing economy.

The deficit last year was equal to 2.5 percent of gross domestic product, down three-quarters from the start of Mr. Obama's administration. It is expected to rise to 2.9 percent this year.

By 2026, the final year of the budget office's 10-year outlook, the annual deficit would surpass $1 trillion for the first time since the recession and financial crisis that Mr. Obama inherited -- reaching $1.4 trillion, or 4.9 percent of gross domestic product.

The budget office said about half of the higher adjustment in its deficit projections reflected revenue losses from the compromise tax cuts. The rest are attributable to changes in its economic forecast and technical assumptions.

The tax compromise last month made permanent some breaks for businesses and individuals that were supposed to be temporary but have been repeatedly extended, some for decades. Making the so-called tax extenders permanent could make budgeting more honest, because for the first time their cost is reflected in long-term forecasts like the latest one by the budget office. But budget watchdog groups had pressed for Congress to offset the costs with other savings to avoid adding to deficits.

''This is a more accurate reflection of what the real long-term outlook is like, but that just highlights the fact that we couldn't afford to continue those extenders,'' said Ed Lorenzen, senior adviser to the centrist Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget.

Mr. Obama had proposed paying for the tax cuts by raising taxes on the wealthiest Americans, but the Republicans who control Congress refused.

''That would have been not just the fairer thing to do, it would have been better for the economy. It also would have improved the fiscal situation of the country,'' the White House press secretary, Josh Earnest, said on Tuesday.

Democratic presidential candidates, including Hillary Clinton and Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, have proposed spending increases for a range of domestic initiatives. They would pay for the new initiatives by raising taxes on the rich, making such tax increases unavailable for deficit reduction.

Republican presidential candidates face bigger questions in light of the new fiscal outlook, since most have proposed new, deep tax cuts, especially for the wealthy and corporations. The most generous by far is the plan of the leading Republican candidate, Donald J. Trump, which nonpartisan analyses have estimated to cost about $10 trillion over 10 years. That would double the total deficit increase projected over the next decade.

The tax cut plans are ''profoundly irresponsible,'' said Steve Bell, senior director of economic policy at the Bipartisan Policy Center, and a Republican who headed the Senate Budget Committee staff in the Reagan era. ''It just leaves guys like me speechless. Those are Republicans.''

Over the long term, according to the budget office, the rise in annual deficits and debt ''is mainly attributable to the aging of the population and rising health care costs per person.''