Polls miss Trump's fall in Iowa vote; 
Obituary.

ABSTRACT.

Donald J. Trump was at the top of each of the last 10 polls in Iowa, but his seven-point lead in polling averages amounted to a three-point loss to Ted Cruz.

FULL TEXT.

For months, mainstream Republicans have hoped that Donald J. Trump's support was a mirage - a combination of high name recognition, unsustainable news media coverage and support from irregular voters who might not show up in a primary.

There's reason to believe their hopes  might be well founded. Despite leading each of the last 10 Iowa polls by an average of seven percentage points, Mr. Trump was defeated in the Iowa caucuses on Monday by Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, who won, 27.6 percent to 24.3 percent, with 100 percent of precincts reporting. Senator Marco Rubio of Florida finished a strong third, with 23.1 percent of the vote.

In the end, Mr. Trump came closer to taking third than to winning.

The result doesn't necessarily leave us much closer to knowing who the eventual nominee will be. It probably signals the beginning of a protracted, three-way fight for the nomination. But the loss raises the possibility that Mr. Trump's strength is at least partly an illusion; he may not be quite as strong as he looks.

Mr. Trump's defeat won't necessarily derail his campaign, as some have speculated. He leads by a wide margin in polling in New Hampshire, so he'll have a strong opportunity to rebound.

Mr. Trump's voters also appeared to turn out in large numbers. Many speculated that he might fail to turn out his supporters, but the turnout in Iowa was higher than most analysts had forecast.

Yet Mr. Trump still fell short. He lost by a wide margin among voters who decided over the last month, and he took third place among voters who had previously participated in the caucuses. Mr. Trump fared especially poorly among voters who decided over the last week - since his decision not to participate in the final presidential debate before the caucuses.

Cruz's Path to Nomination For Mr. Cruz, the victory gives him a chance to forge a narrow but real path to the nomination. His strengths include strong support from self-described ''very conservative'' voters; perhaps the best organization in the race; and a strong fund-raising apparatus. He could fare well in South Carolina in a few weeks, and across the South on Super Tuesday, when 15 states will hold elections or caucuses on March 1.

But his path to the nomination is still not an easy one. He will face full-throated opposition from many prominent Republicans, as was the case here in Iowa. And Mr. Cruz's narrow victory was not especially impressive. It depended almost exclusively on strength among ''very conservative'' voters, who are vastly overrepresented in the Iowa caucuses. There was no primary state where ''very conservative'' voters represented a larger share of the electorate in 2012 than they did in Iowa.

He won just 19 percent among ''somewhat conservative'' voters and a mere 9 percent of the ''moderate'' vote.

Mr. Cruz's victory may bestow enough momentum to attract less conservative voters. But recent primary contests offer reason to be cautious about his prospects. Candidates like Mike Huckabee and Rick Santorum never succeeded in broadening their appeal beyond their natural bases after winning Iowa in 2008 and 2012, respectively.

Rubio's Big Night Making it even harder for Mr. Cruz to broaden his appeal is Mr. Rubio. He finished in a strong third place, beating pre-election polls and nearly beating Mr. Trump for second in a state where Mr. Cruz's base is at its strongest.

Whether Mr. Rubio's showing will be enough to change the race in New Hampshire is hard to say - there isn't much precedent for a logjam like the one in New Hampshire. Four mainstream conservative candidates - Gov. John R. Kasich of Ohio, Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey, Jeb Bush and Mr. Rubio - have all been clustered near 10 percent of the vote in New Hampshire surveys.

If Mr. Rubio's performance in Iowa bestows enough media coverage and credibility for him to break the deadlock, it would be a crucial turning point in the race. A strong showing from Mr. Rubio in New Hampshire could push several mainstream candidates out, freeing up endorsements and fund-raising dollars that have sat on the sidelines. It would also allow him to consolidate the voters who have supported the mainstream candidates.

It would bring about a true three-way race heading into South Carolina.