Clinton tries to reframe 'revolution'; 
Letter from America.

ABSTRACT.

Mrs. Clinton's constrained campaign style may fail to inspire the way her challenger's bold promises do, but in the long run, it may be more reasonable.

FULL TEXT.

Hillary Clinton has a clearer path to the Democratic presidential nomination than she ever had in 2008. But she is marching toward November facing the likelihood of an unpredictable opponent - and constrained by well-defined characteristics that have always limited her ability to inspire.

The former first lady calls it her ''responsibility gene''; rivals deride it as poll-tested caution. Either way, it leaves Mrs. Clinton trying to hit singles and doubles while her Democratic socialist challenger swings for the fences.

Senator Bernie Sanders advocates tax increases of $15 trillion affecting all income groups; Mrs. Clinton seeks an additional $1 trillion in revenue and would leave the bottom 95 percent of earners alone. He calls for a ''Medicare for all'' single-payer health care system; Mrs. Clinton aims to build on President Obama's Affordable Care Act.

He proposes breaking up Wall Street banks that have grown since the financial crisis; she backs tougher regulations but embraces the 2010 Dodd-Frank law that would dismantle banks posing systemic risks. He calls for $1 trillion in new spending to improve infrastructure and create jobs; she calls for $275 billion - half of what her husband's Treasury secretary, Lawrence H. Summers, has advocated.

''I've gone as far as I think the political equation will sustain,'' Mrs. Clinton said in an interview at a manufacturer of automobile dashboards. ''I want to propose things I can get done.''

Judged against the 10 years it took for a gridlocked Congress to pass long-term highway funding - Mr. Obama signed the $305 billion measure three months ago - Mrs. Clinton's approach sounds reasonable. Yet she watches Mr. Sanders thrill young Democratic audiences by exhorting them to alter what's possible through ''political revolution.''

''People make all these claims,'' Mrs. Clinton said, a hint of frustration in her voice. ''And it's hard for voters to really evaluate how do they decide is this person, you know, being smart? Are they just overpromising? Are they way out in left field or right field?

''That's why I've tried to say, 'Look, here's what I will do. Here's how I will do it. Here's how much it will cost.' I think that's pretty revolutionary.''

Her approach has put her on a clear path toward the Democratic nomination. Mr. Sanders's success has so far exceeded most predictions, including almost certainly his own. But since cresting in New Hampshire, his ''Feel the Bern'' wave has receded with no sign of intensification as the contest shifts to larger, more diverse states.

Has the storm passed? ''I hope so,'' Mrs. Clinton said. Then she added warily: ''There's always something - something that can come at you, drop from the sky.''

That's what Donald J. Trump has done to Republicans. If he succeeds, he would represent an extraordinarily unpredictable opponent for Mrs. Clinton.

Alongside her husband in 1992, Mrs. Clinton experienced a similar wild card in Ross Perot's independent candidacy. Mr. Trump has broken even more rules than Mr. Perot did, from his unlikely proposal to deport 11 million illegal immigrants, to his lightning policy reversals, to the crude insults he sprays at opponents of all kinds.

Like most Democrats, Mrs. Clinton's campaign strategists say they believe the nonwhites driven to vote against Mr. Trump would exceed the additional white voters he would attract. But they cannot be certain.

He attacked Mr. Clinton's personal life after Mrs. Clinton accused him of sexism. He tells audiences she may be prosecuted over her private email server (the existence of which, many Democrats say, represents a paradoxical instance of the defensive instincts heightened by years of political combat actually damaging her).

''It doesn't make me nervous,'' the cautious candidate said of running against Mr. Trump. After all, she added, Republicans ''have been after me for years. Nothing new about that.''