A Rush for Books on Trump.

On his bedroom wall, the New Yorker writer Mark Singer has a framed, handwritten note from Donald J. Trump. ''Mark, you are a total loser! And your book (and writings) sucks!'' the note says.

Mr. Trump sent it after Mr. Singer published ''Character Studies,'' a 2005 collection of his writing that included a less than flattering profile of Mr. Trump.

Mr. Singer loved the letter so much that he not only framed it, but also decided to make it the sole blurb on the back cover of his new book, ''Trump and Me,'' which will be published on July 5. The book includes the original New Yorker profile, published in 1997, as well as Mr. Singer's dryly funny account of the real estate tycoon's response and a more sober chapter reflecting on Mr. Trump the candidate.

''People remembered this piece, for better or worse, and I did want to find a way to bring it back to life,'' Mr. Singer said. ''The challenge was to reconcile this person that I observed in the late '90s with this iteration of him in the election.''

Every election cycle brings a tsunami of political books from campaign reporters, pundits and candidates. (Mr. Trump's own manifesto, ''Crippled America: How to Make America Great Again,'' has sold 235,000 hardcover copies in eight months, according to Nielsen.)

But this year is shaping up to be an exceptional one in terms of the sheer volume of writing devoted to Mr. Trump. Some publishers and writers are exhuming out-of-print Trump biographies published decades ago and slapping new covers and introductions on them. Others are rushing out new books that explore Mr. Trump's stunning political rise.

Still others are producing parodies, comic books and satires, including a faux thriller titled ''The Day of the Donald,'' which takes place two years into a Trump presidency. There is also a mock children's book by the comedian Michael Ian Black titled ''A Child's First Book of Trump,'' and a collection from the cartoonist Garry Trudeau called ''Yuge!: 30 Years of Doonesbury on Trump.'' (And in a sign that no publishing niche has been left unexploited, there are more than a half-dozen Trump-themed adult coloring books. Also, a book of Trump paper dolls.)

Even Corey Lewandowski, Mr. Trump's former campaign manager, was at one point shopping a book about the inner workings of the Trump campaign, and had an offer to publish the book with HarperCollins. But the agreement faltered in May when Mr. Lewandowski backed away from the deal, after BuzzFeed reported that he was working on a book. (Mr. Lewandowski, who did not respond to a request for comment, has denied that he was working on a book.)

Last month, Mr. Lewandowski sought to restore the deal, worth a reported $1.2 million, after he was fired from the Trump campaign, Politico recently reported. But HarperCollins declined to renew the offer, according to a publishing executive familiar with the talks.

Like political pundits, publishers are sometimes bad prognosticators. Many editors were hesitant to commission books about Mr. Trump when he first entered the race and seemed like a long shot for the nomination. Once he became the presumptive nominee in May, agents, editors and writers were scrambling to pull together books in time for the election -- a lightning-fast turnaround time in the publishing world.

Fortunately for them, Mr. Trump has provided plenty of dramatic new material. With his bombastic swagger, changing policy positions and larger-than-life persona, Mr. Trump has proved to be an irresistible subject for writers and political satirists.

This summer, as the race between Mr. Trump and Hillary Clinton accelerates, publishers are releasing a flurry of books that dissect Mr. Trump's short and eventful presidential run. In August, Melville House plans to release ''The Making of Donald Trump,'' by the Pulitzer Prize-winning investigative reporter David Cay Johnston, which chronicles Mr. Trump's rise in real estate and his pivot to politics, and draws on decades of interviews, court documents and financial records.

Later that month, Scribner is set to publish ''Trump Revealed,'' a biography written by the Washington Post editor Marc Fisher and a Post investigative political reporter, Michael Kranish. It will draw on the work of more than two dozen Post reporters and researchers.

These new books will bump up against the repackaged editions of older Trump biographies that have taken on new significance now that Mr. Trump is a presidential candidate running on his business record.

Timothy O'Brien, whose 2005 book ''TrumpNation: The Art of Being the Donald,'' prompted a $5 billion, ultimately unsuccessful, defamation lawsuit from Mr. Trump, contacted his publisher last summer after Mr. Trump announced his candidacy to ask if they could update the paperback and digital editions of his book. His publisher was skeptical at first.

''We thought, he's going to implode, there's no point,'' said Jamie Raab, the president and publisher of Grand Central Publishing.

Eight months later, when Mr. Trump swept a series of primaries, Grand Central agreed to republish the book as a paperback with a new introduction by Mr. O'Brien. The updated version includes new details about Mr. Trump's finances that were disclosed during his lawsuit against Mr. O'Brien and the publisher. Mr. Trump alleged that Mr. O'Brien had libeled him by undervaluing his net worth and damaged his reputation as a businessman. In the deposition, Mr. Trump said his net worth could fluctuate with his feelings.

''The deposition has become one of the Rosetta stones of the 2016 campaigns, because you had a trio of fantastic lawyers holding his feet to the fire about his business dealings,'' said Mr. O'Brien, a former editor for The New York Times. ''They sort of stripped the bark off Trump like an old tree.''

Still, not every publisher has an appetite for taking on Trump.

Harry Hurt III had hoped to republish his out-of-print unauthorized Trump biography, ''Lost Tycoon: The Many Lives of Donald J. Trump,'' with his original publisher, W.W. Norton, this year. The book, an explosive exposé of Mr. Trump's personal life and financial travails, caused a minor scandal when it came out in 1993. The biggest bombshell was an allegation from his first wife, Ivana Trump, that Mr. Trump had raped her -- a claim that originated in a deposition she gave during their divorce proceedings. She later recanted the claim, and Mr. Hurt's book included a statement from Ms. Trump, inserted in the flyleaf, clarifying that she felt emotionally and not physically violated by her then husband. Mr. Trump never sued.

But when Mr. Hurt asked Norton to republish the book this year, it declined, citing legal risks and the expenses associated with legal vetting and corrections. Norton, which declined to comment, returned the publication rights to Mr. Hurt.

Mr. Hurt, a former Newsweek correspondent and the author of several nonfiction books, self-published ''Lost Tycoon'' on Amazon and quickly sold 60 copies. Then he got an offer from Echo Point Books & Media, a small Vermont publisher that specializes in republishing out-of-print books. Echo Point is now running a Kickstarter campaign to raise $5,000 to pay for a small print run of the book: ''Publish the book that Donald Trump doesn't want you to read,'' the pitch on Kickstarter says.

Mr. Hurt is eager to get the book out before the election. ''Time's a wasting,'' he said. ''Hopefully this time next year, nobody will want to read about Donald Trump.''