Tax overhaul remains a distant goal.

ABSTRACT.

The idea of a fundamental overhaul faces an uncertain future regardless of who controls the White House and Congress in 2017.

FULL TEXT.

From a distance, tax reform reflects the shimmering frontier of American economic policy: bold plans from Republican presidential candidates, hints of interest from the White House and Hillary Clinton, bipartisan whispers in Congress.

Up close, however, the picture dims. For reasons both economic and political, the idea of a fundamental overhaul that closes loopholes, lowers rates and simplifies the tax code faces a deeply uncertain future regardless of who controls the White House and Congress in 2017.

The first grim sign  came in 2014. Dave Camp, a broadly respected Republican and, at the time, chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, spent months crafting a bipartisan plan bounded by two core requirements.

One was remaining ''deficit neutral,'' since budget red ink has alarmed so many Americans since it increased in the Great Recession. The other was ensuring that the overhaul would be ''distributionally neutral,'' meaning it wouldn't deliver outsize benefits to the wealthy amid rising concern about income inequality.

The plan collapsed immediately. Just as so often in the past, those who fared worse under the plan (like large Wall Street firms facing a new ''too big to fail'' tax) outshouted those subject to lower rates.

The second sign has come from the presidential race. As Republicans scrambled to raise campaign cash last year, they proposed sweeping overhauls. Jettisoning the limitations that constrained Mr. Camp, they looked to cut the top income tax rate of 39.6 percent to as low as 10 percent, which Senator Ted Cruz of Texas proposed under a flat rate.

But as on-the-ground campaigning intensified in Iowa and New Hampshire, those plans were elbowed aside. Republican candidates rely increasingly on working-class voters, who have less interest than donors in cutting rates for top earners. Terrorist attacks in Paris and San Bernardino, Calif., suddenly placed security fears at center stage.

Thus, in the Republican debate last week, candidates referred to ''ISIS'' 44 times. The phrase ''tax reform'' was uttered once, by Mr. Cruz.

A third splash of cold water came last week from the White House, which has long been lukewarm about efforts to change the tax code. In a speech, a top adviser for President Obama explained why: Potential benefits are not worth the immense political trouble. Jason Furman, who leads Mr. Obama's Council of Economic Advisers, said that a commission appointed by President George W. Bush estimated in 2005 that a fundamental tax overhaul would add less than 1 percent to long-run national economic output.

By contrast, increases since 1986 in tax credits for low- and moderate-income workers and parents, which hardly simplify the tax code, have increased by 7 percent the take-home pay for the bottom 40 percent of earners. The allure of simplicity itself, Mr. Furman argued, is largely a chimera.

''Most of the complexity in the tax code derives from efforts to accurately measure'' income, he said, rather than from deductions for things like mortgage interest and charitable contributions.

Some Republican experts have urged party leaders to turn away from rate-slashing overhaul plans.

''Big tax cuts, particularly for the wealthiest, do not work in an age of high inequality and heavy debt,'' James Pethokoukis of the American Enterprise Institute wrote recently.

With the number of people collecting Social Security projected to swell to 65 million in 2025, from 49 million in 2015, that hurdle will grow higher.

Mr. Furman acknowledged that overhauling business taxes - the United States' corporate tax rate of 35 percent is the highest of any advanced economy - carried the potential for greater benefits.

Mrs. Clinton sees similar benefits. But while denouncing the ''perversion'' of corporate tax avoidance to campaign audiences, she hasn't outlined a plan to overhaul corporate taxes and may not do so this year.

Republican leaders in the House and Senate have made overhauling corporate taxes a major goal. But they disagree on when and how to move forward.

The last comprehensive tax overhaul in the United States came 30 years ago. The next one won't come soon, or easily.