Clinton's chance to make bold changes; 
Economic Scene.

ABSTRACT.

A mantra that worked in the 1990s is ill-matched to the momentous challenges posed by a nation split by vast inequities of income and opportunity.

FULL TEXT.

''The economy, stupid.''

With the threat of terrorism dominating the headlines, Hillary Clinton's campaign advisers may not have stuck that slogan to the wall at their headquarters in Brooklyn, as James Carville did for her husband, Bill, in Little Rock, Ark., nearly a quarter-century ago.

But they might as well have. For one thing, Mrs. Clinton, the presumptive Democratic nominee and strong favorite to win the presidential election come November, proposed to draft Mr. Clinton as an economic adviser. Moreover, she has hitched the economic strategy of her presidential bid to the animating principle that defined his presidency: jobs, jobs and more jobs.

Her lodestar? The economy of spring 2000, when unemployment reached its lowest level since the inauguration of Richard Nixon 30 years before, and when the real earnings of American households in the middle - white, black or Hispanic - achieved a peak that has not been reached again to this day.

''You can aim for a lot of targeted policies in life,'' said Gene B. Sperling, a former top economic adviser to President Bill Clinton and President Obama, who has offered advice to Mrs. Clinton during her two presidential campaigns. ''But few come close to what you get from tight labor markets.''

True enough. Her general proposition - that creating economic conditions in which employers are desperate to attract workers to fill jobs is the best way to improve wages and benefits - is correct. And with today's jobless rate still close to 5 percent, who wouldn't like to see 3.8 percent unemployment?

But the mantra that worked in the 1990s is nonetheless ill-matched to the momentous challenges posed by a nation split by vast inequities of income and opportunity; where the very idea of getting ahead has become an abstraction to tens of millions of Americans.

''She needs one or two big ideas that are proportionate to the scale of the problems we are facing,'' said Robert Reich, who served as labor secretary during Mr. Clinton's first term yet endorsed Bernie Sanders in the Democratic primary. ''Her instinct is to be incrementalist.''

A big part of the problem is the erosion of the country's working class. It has been hollowed out as trade and technology have done away with most of the well-paid jobs once available to Americans without a college degree, tipping many of them into a service economy of low wages, uncertain hours and little job security.

Some of Mrs. Clinton's proposals - such as tax incentives for businesses that share profits with their employees or invest in forlorn areas, or a ''clawback'' of tax benefits when companies move jobs overseas - could help.

Her plan to increase federal investment in infrastructure is a particularly good idea, approved by most economists, labor unions, and even the Chamber of Commerce. It would not just lift employment but provide decent wages to those who need them most.

With interest rates near zero, infrastructure amounts to a slam dunk investment opportunity. Indeed, continuing to defer the maintenance of America's crumbling highways and water systems will certainly be more costly than fixing them now.

Still, there is something anachronistic about Mrs. Clinton's focus.

''I am really, totally committed to bringing back manufacturing'' sounds great in Youngstown, Ohio, before the state's primary. But it is not a policy to revive a struggling working class. There are only 300,000 steel workers in the United States. How many can be added by threatening to slap tariffs on imports of Chinese steel? Not many.

Her turn against the Trans-Pacific Partnership trade pact with Asian countries - a deal she once supported - makes sense within her overall strategy. Why waste time and political capital on an agreement that might make the economy more efficient but will not create lots of jobs? Still, this does not amount to a strategy about global trade.

To be sure, Mrs. Clinton has been pushed to some of these positions by Mr. Sanders and Donald J. Trump, the presumptive Republican nominee. Their show of force in politically crucial Rust Belt states underscored how important it was to strike a pro-manufacturing, trade-hostile stance.

And yet Mrs. Clinton's careful collection of tweaks and prods is no match for the challenge. For instance, she is proposing $275 billion in federal infrastructure investment over five years. That is less than 10 percent of what the American Society of Civil Engineers estimates will be needed.

Mrs. Clinton's entire tax plan would raise only $1.1 trillion over the next decade, according to the Tax Policy Center - half a percentage point of the nation's gross domestic product.

That might make her look judicious. Mr. Sanders's plan would raise $15.3 trillion in new taxes, mostly to pay for government-financed health care for all. Mr. Trump would cut tax revenues by $9.5 trillion, promising impossible growth in return. But excessive judiciousness can hamstring progress.

What about dismissing the deficit scolds who shape the outdated Washington Beltway consensus and borrowing $1 trillion or so to sharply ramp up the spending on infrastructure?

How about taking advantage of the cheapest oil prices in a very long time to propose a carbon tax? Or how about imposing a progressive wealth tax to tap into the good fortune of some 160,000 American families at the very tip of the wealth pyramid, who are on their way to pass $12 trillion to the next generation, much of it untaxed?

The money could be spent on high quality and universal early education, providing the next generation a better shot at a level playing field. It could be spent on training, to provide workers with needed skills, or job search services to help match workers and jobs. These strategies have been successfully employed by other advanced nations but remain a rarity in the United States.

Mrs. Clinton, of course, is not the only candidate indulging in nostalgia. Witness Mr. Trump's bombastic appeal to white working-class men uncomfortable in an America where one must dial ''1'' for English. Still, she has a rare opportunity. If she wins, she may well come into office with the political wind at her back: a Senate returned to Democratic control and a divided Republican Party with a tenuous hold on the House.

Americans have just lived through perhaps the most progressive presidency since the 1960s. Mr. Obama raised tax rates on the rich and expanded health insurance for millions of Americans. Facing stubborn resistance in Congress, he leaned on his executive powers to improve working conditions.

Yet the nation's enormous inequities just got bigger. The income of the richest 1 percent grew 27 percent from 2009 to 2014. The average gain for everybody else barely exceeded 4 percent. A future projected along these lines does not look promising.

Mr. Sanders talks about a revolution. Mrs. Clinton might want to try to deliver one.