A Big Bet on Nostalgia.

The television industry is facing an uncertain, uncharted future. But next season it's placing a big bet on the past.

MacGyver, the crafty secret agent, is returning to CBS three decades after his 1985 debut. ''Tales From the Crypt,'' an HBO series that first aired in 1989, will be resurrected on TNT. ''MTV Unplugged,'' whose Eric Clapton heyday was in the 1990s, is back -- and so are ''24,'' ''Prison Break'' and ''Gilmore Girls.''

''We now live in a world where TV shows never die,'' said David Nevins, the chief executive of Showtime. He has his own revival on the way: Mr. Nevins helped persuade David Lynch to create a new chapter of ''Twin Peaks,'' the cult series that went off the air a quarter-century ago.

Call it a familiarity fetish. At the network upfront presentations, which began on Monday, executives are expected to unveil new adaptations of favored franchises that extend beyond TV shows, including films like ''The Exorcist,'' ''Training Day,'' ''Taken'' and, potentially, ''Cruel Intentions,'' with Sarah Michelle Gellar reprising her role in the 1999 original.

Network nostalgia for a happier, Netflix-free age is not the only factor at play. With about 400 scripted shows airing last year alone, built-in name recognition can offer a crucial edge with audiences overwhelmed by new choices. And streaming services have revealed new interest in older titles thought to be past their profitable prime.

''We are not saying we are out of the original idea business,'' said David Madden, president of entertainment at Fox. ''Having said that, there are a lot of shows out there, a lot of material competing for people's attention. And where you have a title that people recognize, value and appreciate, that's something we want to take advantage of.''

Name-brand programs can excite existing fan bases, reduce marketing costs and appeal to an increasingly important international market. (The French, it turns out, are big fans of ''Prison Break,'' Mr. Madden said.)

But there are no guarantees. Fox's revival of ''The X-Files'' was among this season's best-rated new shows, but the network canceled ''Minority Report,'' based on the Tom Cruise sci-fi movie, after dismal ratings. ABC is axing its revival of ''The Muppets,'' and on Monday, CBS said it was canceling the low-rated ''Rush Hour.''

''It is irresistible in a world that has 60 or 80 makers of original programming to have something that has pre-existing awareness,'' said Mr. Nevins of Showtime. ''Still, at the end of the day, it's going to rise and fall based on its quality.''

And not all revivals are created equal. Mr. Nevins said he pursued a new ''Twin Peaks'' only because Mr. Lynch agreed to participate. (''We've persuaded the original creators to complete their mission,'' he said.) David Duchovny and Gillian Anderson signed on for ''The X-Files,'' but Jackie Chan and Chris Tucker were missing from ''Rush Hour.''

Other titles will be reimagined, even if the name initially helped open doors. Sarah Aubrey, who oversees programming at TNT, described the excitement when M. Night Shyamalan approached the network about revamping ''Tales From the Crypt,'' the kitschy HBO horror series. But the plan is for a new twist on the cackling Cryptkeeper character, and not a shot-by-shot remake.

''We like the idea of it, signifying tone,'' Ms. Aubrey said of the title. ''It put out the right kind of thematic indicator of what we were going for in the horror space.''

MTV has a similar strategy for ''Unplugged,'' which returns as the channel pivots back to its music video roots. The new ''Unplugged'' is meant to appeal to Generation Xers and millennials alike. But ''it will not be carpets and candles,'' said Erik Flannigan, the channel's head of music programming, referring to the scenery that distinguished ''Unplugged'' concerts by '90s staples like Nirvana and 10,000 Maniacs.

''I don't think we need to trade on the nostalgia of what 'Unplugged' meant for me and you if you witnessed it the first time,'' Mr. Flannigan said. ''It really is a brand-new idea to somebody who is 22 years old.''

In part, the move toward all these reboots is a product of -- and hedge against -- the rise of Netflix, Hulu and Amazon Video, where cord-cutting viewers are rediscovering shows whose syndication days on cable and broadcast networks are long over. In another era, shows like ''The X-Files'' would persist only in private DVD collections; now, viewers bored with the latest network offerings are binging on them.

And audiences like the classics. ''Friends'' has been a surprise hit on Netflix, which also brought the world ''Fuller House,'' a sequel to ''Full House.'' Hulu paid nearly $1 million an episode to stream ''Seinfeld.'' A recent survey by Comcast Xfinity found that ''The Sopranos,'' a show that had its premiere in 1999, and ''The Wire,'' which debuted in 2002, were among the most popular shows on its on-demand service, which reaches millions of households.

For networks that own their old shows, the financial allure of a remake is even greater. ''It refreshes and regenerates the library,'' said Peter Rice, chairman of Fox Networks Group, noting that old episodes become newly valuable domestically and overseas.

''Hawaii Five-0,'' the 1960s procedural that CBS revived in 2010, is considered a case study of that model. The show's revival prompted a windfall syndication deal with TNT, with CBS securing more than $2 million per episode. Peter Lenkov, who oversees the new ''Hawaii Five-0,'' was recently tapped by CBS to run its new version of ''MacGyver,'' which stars Lucas Till. And, yes, CBS renewed ''Hawaii Five-0'' for a seventh season.

A social anthropologist might wonder if television's nostalgia craze can be attributed to viewers who are seeking out the familiar in a disruptive, uneasy age (See Trump, Donald J.). But when that question was posed to Martin Kaplan, director of the Norman Lear Center for media and society at the University of Southern California, he laughed.

''I would not discount the commercial motivations,'' Mr. Kaplan, a screenwriter and former studio executive, said dryly.

''MacGyver is a name that's in the culture,'' he said. ''If you see that, you know what you're getting, as opposed to some name that means nothing.'' That's why, he added, viewers often encounter ''endless sequels to things that seem to have come out only 20 minutes ago.''

The nostalgia, he noted, may be on the studios' end, rather than viewers'. ''There's nothing as helpful to a programmer as a title or a show that has brand equity already built into it,'' he said.

So is there anything Mr. Kaplan would like to see rebooted?

'''College Bowl,''' he replied. ''It's a higher-end version of 'Are You Smarter Than a Fifth Grader?'.''