From failed hopefuls, bold ideas worth another look; 
Your Money.

ABSTRACT.

Jeb Bush's ideas on student loans, Bernie Sanders's on credit scores and Marco Rubio's on retirement investing needn't cost taxpayers much.

FULL TEXT.

Welcome to the season of the big, political personal finance promises.

On one side, we have Hillary Clinton, dangling the prospect of a tuition-free education at an in-state public college or university for a majority of American undergraduates, including many from upper middle-class families. On the other, there is Donald J. Trump, who wants to simplify the tax code and lower tax rates.

We'll be hearing plenty more proposals like this at the conventions in the next few weeks. But as always in politics, the bigger the possible benefit or cut, the higher the price and the lower the odds that anything like it will ever come to pass.

So let us turn instead to bold money ideas from the presidential candidates who did not get this far. The three proposals below, which involve student loans, credit histories and retirement savings, are notable for the measurable improvement they would offer and that they need not cost taxpayers much at all.

They deserve another hearing, including by the surviving candidates.

Jeb Bush: Student loans Some big ideas do come to pass. Obamacare did, after all. So let's assume for the moment that Mrs. Clinton gets elected and her college proposal becomes reality. There will still be students from families with incomes above $125,000 who may need to borrow. Others will need money for room and board, graduate school or private colleges (where tuition will not be free under the Clinton plan).

And if she drops her plan (which was inspired by a more generous one by Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont), cannot get it through Congress or loses the election? All the more reason to consider Jeb Bush's proposal for a radical overhaul of the federal student loan program.

Under the Bush plan, there is no more confusing pile of loans with varying interest rates. Instead, students get a single line of credit and take what they need each semester. For every $10,000 you borrow, you turn over an additional percentage point of your income each year for 25 years. It's prorated to the exact amount of what you borrow, so that if you have a debt of $28,000 you would be paying 2.8 percent of your income. The payoff term runs out in less than 25 years if your total payments hit 1.75 times the amount you originally borrowed. You can find more details in Matthew M. Chingos's analysis of the plan for the Brookings Institution.

Borrowers would pay through payroll deduction or quarterly payments, just as they now pay estimated taxes. This would reduce the (too large) number of people who are behind or in default, often because they are not aware of the confusing array of income-driven repayment programs that already exist.

The big catch here is a proposed $50,000 borrowing cap. That's more than most undergraduates can currently borrow from the federal student loan program but much less than most graduate students can borrow. Many of the people who need more than that for advanced degrees, however, will probably be well served by lenders in the private sector. Teenage undergraduates with nonexistent credit histories might not be so lucky, according to Jason Delisle, who was an informal adviser to the Bush campaign. Hence the desire to do more for them.

What's the closest a borrower could get to something like this under the current system? Start by not borrowing from anywhere other than the federal government. Then, enroll in an income-driven repayment plan as soon as possible.

Bernie Sanders: Credit scores On his campaign website, Senator Bernie Sanders calls for credit score reform, ''to make the banking and credit industries work for borrowers and not just lenders.'' He does not offer further details, and his campaign did not respond to my requests last week for comment.

One logical place to start would be to make it as easy to view credit scores as it is to get your three free credit reports each year. Credit scores use data from credit reports, so why not make both of them free? In fact, Senator Sanders proposed just that in 2013.

This seems like a fine and fair idea. The challenge, however, is figuring out what score to provide. Yes, a FICO score is the gold standard because that is what many lenders use, but different companies use different versions of the score. ''The score you would get once per year would not be the one that your lender is using, and it would change tomorrow,'' said John Ulzheimer, who writes about the credit industry for consumers and frequently serves as an expert witness, mostly for lenders or others in the industry.

The law does currently require mortgage lenders to give all applicants the credit score that they are using. Moreover, any company that turns down customers because of their credit score or asks them to pay more than they might have otherwise is supposed to hand over the score it used.

So given that these companies have the scores available or can easily gain access to them, perhaps the next president could try to require that every company hand out the ones they are using to any consumer who asks. People who ask for one but do not end up becoming a customer within a reasonable period of time could be required to pay a nominal fee to cover the company's costs. In the meantime, it isn't hard to find a free credit score, even if it isn't the exact one that your lender or cellphone company is using. Discover makes one available to anyone who signs up at its website, and FICO has encouraged other companies to make scores available to customers.

Marco Rubio: Retirement accounts Two years ago, Senator Marco Rubio of Florida proposed that everyone in America ought to be able to invest through the United States government's retirement program, which is called the Thrift Savings Plan. He had in mind the millions of people who have no workplace retirement plan, but the government plan is also better than just about anything any employer offers.

Its beauty is in its simplicity and its low cost. People put their money in index funds or United States government securities, so they get whatever the markets return without making foolish bets on mutual fund managers who think they know better. And the scale of the plan ($469 billion) from 4.9 million participants and counting) has allowed it to negotiate rock-bottom fees that total just $2.90 for every $10,000 invested. That is far below what people pay in other employer-based accounts.

William A. Birdthistle, author of ''Empire of the Fund,'' a lively new book critical of our flawed system of saving, first pointed out Mr. Rubio's interest to me. He wondered, as I do, why the senator didn't have much to say about it during his campaign. His representatives declined to comment on whether he still supported letting every American invest the way that federal employees do.

Mr. Birdthistle, who worked for a big law firm that defended troubled mutual fund companies before he became a professor at the Illinois Institute of Technology's Chicago-Kent College of Law, points to the political pickle a candidate might be in for supporting the Thrift Savings Plan. Voters might blame a Democrat for not pounding the table hard enough for more guaranteed income from Social Security. A Republican, however, would be praising a giant government savings plan that offers better investments and lower prices than most of the private sector delivers.

Wall Street would not be thrilled, and perhaps donors who work there made their feelings known to Senator Rubio after he spoke up in 2014.

Opening the Thrift Savings Plan to everyone would have a cost, given the complexity of payroll withholding from untold numbers of new workers. Mr. Birdthistle suggested that the government might build a parallel program alongside the current plan so as not to impose those new costs on incumbent participants.

As for anyone today who wants to save as federal workers do, you can try to create an approximation of the Thrift Savings Plan. Look, perhaps, to Morningstar, which tackled it last year.

Or you could do what a partner at Mr. Birdthistle's former firm told him and his fellow associates to do with their money. After getting them up to speed on their mutual fund clients and the various accusations of scandals and schemes they faced, he recommended a different investment firm, one that is best known for its index funds. That company is owned by its funds, which are owned by the shareholders.

The solution, the partner told them, was simple. ''Just put your money in Vanguard,'' he said.