Visa screening missed attacker's zealotry.

ABSTRACT.

Tashfeen Malik passed three background checks, but none uncovered that she talked openly on social media about her desire to take part in violent jihad.

FULL TEXT.

CORRECTION APPENDED.

Tashfeen Malik, who with her husband carried out the massacre in San Bernardino, Calif., passed three background checks by American immigration officials as she moved to the United States from Pakistan. None uncovered what Ms. Malik had made little effort to hide - that she talked openly on social media about her views on violent jihad.

She said she supported it. And she said she wanted to be a part of it.

American law enforcement officials said they recently discovered those old - and previously unreported - postings as they pieced together the lives of Ms. Malik and her husband, Syed Rizwan Farook, trying to understand how they pulled off the deadliest terrorist attack on American soil since Sept. 11, 2001.

Had the authorities found the posts years ago, they might have kept her out of the country. But immigration officials do not routinely review social media as part of their background checks, and there is a debate inside the Department of Homeland Security over whether it is even appropriate to do so.

The discovery of the old social media posts has exposed a significant - and perhaps inevitable - shortcoming in how foreigners are screened when they enter the United States, particularly as people everywhere disclose more about themselves online. Tens of millions of people are cleared each year to come to America to work, visit or live. It is impossible to conduct an exhaustive investigation and scour the social media accounts of each of them, law enforcement officials say.

After the terrorist attacks in San Bernardino and Paris, this screening process has been singled out as a major vulnerability. Lawmakers have endorsed making it harder for people to enter the United States if they have recently been in Iraq or Syria. Donald J. Trump, the Republican presidential candidate, has said there should be a temporary ban on Muslims' entering the country.

While President Obama has cautioned against ''a betrayal of our values'' in the way the United States responds to threats, he has ordered a review of the K-1 visa program, which allows foreigners like Ms. Malik to move to the United States to marry Americans, putting them on a pathway to permanent residence and, ultimately, citizenship.

The Obama administration is trying to determine whether those background checks can be expanded without causing major delays in the popular program. In an attempt to ensure they did not miss threats from men and women who entered the country the same way Ms. Malik did, immigration officials are also reviewing all of about 90,000 K-1 visas issued in the past two years and are considering a moratorium on new ones while they determine whether changes should be made.

''Somebody entered the United States through the K-1 visa program and proceeded to carry out an act of terrorism on American soil,'' the White House spokesman, Josh Earnest, said on Thursday. ''That program is at a minimum worth a very close look.''

It may seem surprising that a Facebook or Twitter post could go unnoticed in a background screening. But the screenings are an example of the trade-offs that security officials make as they try to mitigate the threat of terrorism while keeping borders open.

''We run people against watch lists, and that's how we decided if they get extra screening,'' said C. Stewart Verdery Jr., a senior homeland security official during George W. Bush's administration. ''In cases where those lists don't hit, there's nothing that distinguishes them from people we would love to welcome to this country.''

Ms. Malik faced three extensive national security and criminal background screenings. First, homeland security officials checked her name against American law enforcement and national security databases. Then, her visa application went to the State Department, which checked her fingerprints against other databases. Finally, after coming to the United States and formally marrying Mr. Farook here, she applied for her green card and received another round of criminal and security checks.

Ms. Malik also had two in-person interviews, federal officials said, the first by a consular officer in Pakistan, and the second by an immigration officer in the United States.

All those reviews came back clear, and the F.B.I. has said it had no incriminating information about Ms. Malik or Mr. Farook in its databases. The State Department and the Department of Homeland Security have said they followed all policies and procedures. The departments declined to provide any documentation or specifics about the process, saying they cannot discuss the case because of the continuing investigation.

Meanwhile, a debate is underway at United States Citizenship and Immigration Services, the agency that approves visas and green cards, over whether officers conducting interviews should be allowed to routinely use material gathered from social media for interviews where they assess whether foreigners are credible or pose any security risk. With that issue unresolved, the agency has not regularly been using social media references, federal officials said.

After the terrorist attacks in Paris last month, a furor arose over whether the United States should accept Syrian refugees. Governors in more than two dozen states balked at accepting any. But the vetting for refugees is a separate, longer and more rigorous process than the checks for K-1 and most other immigrant visas. And there is an extra layer of scrutiny for Syrians, who are referred to a national security and fraud office at the Department of Homeland Security for a final look. In that last step, officers can include a social media search, federal officials said.

As part of their investigation into the electronic trail of Ms. Malik and Mr. Farook, investigators are searching for devices, including a computer hard drive. Over the weekend, a team of divers from the F.B.I. and the San Bernardino County Sheriff's Department continued their search for those devices in Seccombe Lake in a park about two miles from the site of the Dec. 2 attack.

Since its inception in 2002, the Department of Homeland Security has been trying to find the right balance between security and ease of movement.

''Compared to where we were 15 years ago, we've moved the needle very far to the right on security,'' Mr. Verdery said.

Still, he said, officials have to decide who gets extra scrutiny. Today the government focuses its attention on people in certain fields or from certain countries - foreign scientists, for instance, or young men from the Middle East. As a woman, Ms. Malik likely raised less suspicion, Mr. Verdery said.

CORRECTION:

As published in the International New York Times.

Editor's Note: An article on Monday  about  Tashfeen Malik, one of the attackers in the mass shooting in San Bernardino, Calif., based on accounts from law enforcement officials, reported that she had ''talked openly on social media'' about her support for violent jihad. On Wednesday, however, the director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, James B. Comey, said that online communications about jihad by Ms. Malik and her husband, Syed Rizwan Farook, involved ''direct, private messages.'' His remarks indicated that the comments about jihad were not made in widely accessible social media posts. Law enforcement officials subsequently told The New York Times that Ms. Malik communicated with her husband in emails and private messages, and on a dating site. Ms. Malik's comments to Mr. Farook about violent jihad were made on a messaging platform, officials said.  Neither Mr. Comey nor other officials identified the specific platforms that were used.

Saturday, December 19, 2015.