America the shiny, or gloomy; 
Obama pushes positive while Republicans see dark side of the country.

ABSTRACT.

President Obama has been trying to counter the glass-is-half-empty conversation coming from so many of the candidates intent on succeeding him.

FULL TEXT.

Over the course of 48 hours, Americans will confront two starkly disparate views of President Obama's America that will frame the debate over the future of the country in this election year and beyond.

The country described by the president on Tuesday night in his final State of the Union address is the most powerful nation on earth and on the rise again, with more jobs, better health care and stunning innovation. Although grappling with serious challenges, it is poised for greater progress.

By contrast, the country that Republican presidential candidates will depict on Thursday night in their next nationally televised debate is a darker place, a once-great power that has lost ground in a dangerous world, surrendered its authority and leadership to allies and enemies alike, and diminished freedom and opportunity at home.

Whichever view ultimately seems more credible to the public will help determine who succeeds Mr. Obama next January and sets the nation's course for the following four years. For months, Republicans led by Donald J. Trump have tapped into a deep river of discontent in the electorate, and Mr. Obama decided to use the most prominent platform in American politics to push back.

The address ''was President Obama's morning-in-America response to the malaise speech that the Republican candidates have been delivering for the last year,'' said Jon Favreau, the president's former chief speechwriter. ''From Reagan to Clinton and Obama, people have never elected a pessimistic president who talks about America like it's a 'Mad Max' movie.''

But Republicans said Mr. Obama would have a hard time convincing the public with a rosy picture that conflicts with their own perceptions and experiences. Just hours before the president's address, Iran detained 10 American sailors from two Navy patrol boats in the Persian Gulf. The American sailors were swiftly released, displaying what many analysts said was a sign of Iran's improving relations with the West, but the incident still provided timely ammunition for the Republican case that Mr. Obama's diplomacy with Tehran has been misplaced and has undercut American power.

''Americans wake up every day to more bad news with a world in constant crisis,'' said Mark Dubowitz, executive director of the Foundation for Defense of Democracies, a policy institute focused on national security. ''American leadership is in decline while the world is in full meltdown with Iranian mullahs, Russian dictators and radical Islamists on the ascent. No State of the Union address, no matter how eloquent, can explain away that harsh reality.''

Republicans are not the only ones who see a glass half empty. Senator Bernie Sanders, the Vermont socialist who has mounted a populist challenge to former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton for the Democratic presidential nomination, has drawn huge crowds describing a country dominated by well-heeled Wall Street plutocrats profiting off workers who have increasingly lost ground.

Such negativity from the right and left has exasperated Mr. Obama, who has gotten less credit than aides say he deserves for the progress of the last seven years. The only regret he acknowledged was a failed promise to change the tone of Washington. Beyond that, he used the speech to try to refute gloomy Republican assessments.

''Anyone claiming that America's economy is in decline is peddling fiction,'' Mr. Obama told the lawmakers in the House chamber and millions watching at home who could easily guess the ''anyone'' he had in mind.

A few minutes later, he added: ''I told you earlier all the talk of America's economic decline is political hot air. Well, so is all the rhetoric you hear about our enemies getting stronger and America getting weaker.''

''The future we want, all of us want - opportunity and security for our families, a rising standard of living, a sustainable, peaceful planet for our kids - all that is within our reach,'' Mr. Obama added.

By some measures, Mr. Obama has a compelling case. Unemployment has fallen to 5 percent, less than half its peak during the economic crisis he inherited, and nearly 14 million more jobs have been created since the recovery began. More than 17 million Americans have health care coverage under Mr. Obama's program. Median household income finally reached $56,746 in November, the level that had been reached when the recession began, according to one research firm. After a near-death experience, the auto industry has surged. Violent crime is down; so are gasoline prices.

''To Republicans who won't give the president any credit for any success in 2016, I would just suggest they read the statistics about where we were at his first State of the Union address in 2009,'' said Representative Steve Israel, a Democrat from New York. ''But they can't afford to do that, and that is part of their political calculation. They are so petrified by the fear of a primary on the right.''

But two out of three Americans still feel the country is on the wrong path, in part because the gains of the last few years have not been distributed evenly. Income disparities have grown worse. The poverty rate is 14.8 percent, higher than when Mr. Obama took office. The economy is growing again, but not as fast as under Ronald Reagan or Bill Clinton. And although the deficit has been slashed from its recession spike, the overall national debt has ballooned to $18 trillion from $11 trillion.

More challenging to the president's argument may be foreign policy, where his successes have been overshadowed by turmoil in Paris, Ukraine, Libya and Syria. Mr. Obama has in the last year secured a landmark nuclear deal with Iran, reopened an embassy in Cuba, sealed a free-trade pact in the Asia-Pacific region and corralled the world into a climate change accord. But each of those agreements has its critics.

The resurgence of Vladimir V. Putin's Russia, the devastating civil war in Syria and the rise of the Islamic State, accompanied by terrorist attacks and beheadings, have unsettled many Americans. A president who authorized the raid that killed Osama bin Laden and who hoped to leave office having ended wars in Iraq and Afghanistan will instead hand his successor an unresolved war spreading across multiple countries. Where he used to boast that he had decimated ''core Al Qaeda,'' on Tuesday night he said it still posed ''a direct threat'' to Americans.

''It's increasingly clear the anxiety voters feel is not just economic,'' said Sara Fagen, a Republican strategist. ''They are concerned with what they perceive as a weakened America on the world stage. They believe that even if America was leading, the rest of the world would not follow us. Obama's actions on Iran, Syria and Russia have done nothing to assuage that fear.''

One of the hardest things for a president to do is to assuage fear, and as the aftermath of the attack in San Bernardino, Calif., showed, Mr. Obama's style tends toward the intellectual, and at times didactic, even as he is trying to be reassuring.

He took over in exceedingly hard times and has struggled ever since to inspire in office the way he did on the campaign trail. But he has a bully pulpit and he made clear Tuesday night that he intends to use it. He has 373 days left to define what people think of Barack Obama's America.