For pope, it's bigger than Trump; 
Politics and an agenda to serve the poor are inseparable for Francis.

ABSTRACT.

In declaring Donald J. Trump's statements as "not Christian," the Latin American pope again demonstrated his knack for sticking his nose into putatively secular affairs.

FULL TEXT.

In the cage fight of American presidential politics, the matchup is irresistible: Pope Francis, leader of the world's 1.2 billion Roman Catholics, the pope of the poor who has kneeled to wash the feet of prisoners and Muslims, versus Donald J. Trump, billionaire Republican who disparages Muslims and kneels to no one.

When Francis said Mr. Trump ''is not Christian'' in answering a reporter's question on his return flight from Mexico, the Latin American pope not only served up red meat for global headline writers (''Francesco Excommunicates Trump,'' declared La Stampa in Italy), but again demonstrated his knack for sticking his nose into putatively secular affairs.

From the first days of his papacy, when he insisted on paying his hotel bill himself, Francis has understood the power of gesture, and of a global spotlight available to any pope capable of using it. His flap with Mr. Trump is about immigration, but to Francis the issue transcends Republican politics. Just as he made a politically charged visit to the border of Mexico and the United States on Wednesday, Francis also made a 2014 stop in Bethlehem to pray at the graffiti-covered wall dividing the Palestinian sector from Israel.

His critics in the United States, many of them conservative Catholics, argue that Francis is a ''political pope'' pursuing a leftist agenda that castigates capitalism and environmental degradation. Even before Francis' remarks about him, Mr. Trump had criticized the pope as ''a political person'' and accused him of visiting the United States-Mexico border as a favor to the Mexican government.

That would probably be a surprise to the Mexican government, judging from Francis' six-day swing through the country. Every day, Francis spoke of the malaise in Mexican society, the lack of jobs and education for the young, the horrific violence of the drug cartels. His itinerary was a tour of political failure and social injustice: slums, the heartland of exploited indigenous communities and a divided border.

The Francis versus Trump dynamic is undeniably a made-for-media clash, but overlooked is that each man has diagnosed the same currents in society, fishing for followers in seas churning with anger, dislocation, spiritual alienation and economic inequality. Seen from Europe, Mr. Trump is an amplified version of angry populists like Marine Le Pen, the far-right leader in France, playing to fears about migrants, Islam and economic stagnation.

''Trump is the leader of a populism that's growing: a cultural industry that has imitators in many countries in Eastern Europe, above all, but also in France, Italy, Denmark, Scandinavia,'' Massimo Franco, a columnist for the Italian newspaper Corriere della Sera, wrote on Friday. ''It expresses a resentment and hatred toward the 'foreigner' born of fear and economic insecurity.'' Mr. Franco added: ''Trump becomes the metaphor of an egotistical and racist Christianity, which for the pope represents an unacceptable oxymoron.''

Giovanni Maria Vian, the editor in chief of the Vatican's official newspaper, L'Osservatore Romano, said every pope was ''both religious and political.'' Pope John Paul II is a famously political pope for his role during the Cold War in helping to bring down the Iron Curtain that divided East from West. Francis, born in Argentina, has a different focus.

''Francis' walls are between the north and south of the world, and that's why they bother him,'' Mr. Vian said. ''His reactions are moral, not political.''

Yet he has inevitably strayed into the political realm as he critiques society, and no doubt deliberately. While populists like Mr. Trump and Ms. Le Pen partly blame foreigners for inequities, Francis points to structural inequities deriving from the global capitalist order. His speeches about the excesses of capitalism, often sprinkled with Old Testament fury, divide the world between exploiters and the exploited.

''God will hold the slave drivers of our day accountable,'' Francis said in a speech to workers and business owners in Ciudad Juárez, as he called for greater Christian ethics in business. ''The flow of capital cannot decide the flow and life of people.''

More than anyone, Mr. Trump symbolizes the excesses of capitalism, yet Vatican officials emphasized on Friday that the pope was not personally attacking Mr. Trump, nor trying to influence American voters.

''The pope said what we all know, when we follow his teaching and his views: that we should not build walls but bridges,'' the Vatican spokesman, Federico Lombardi, told Vatican Radio. ''It's his general position, and it is coherent with what it means to courageously follow the indications of the Gospel, of acceptance and solidarity.''

Indeed, Francis' message is to call on all Christians to be more Christian, including members of the hierarchy of the Roman Catholic Church. He has challenged his own bishops to be humbler, to get out onto the streets and be more compassionate. His economic critique is also a moral one, as he laments a ''throwaway culture'' in which poor people and migrants are collateral damage. By contrast, Mr. Trump often divides people between winners and losers.

In the final Mass of his Mexico trip, held along the United States border, Francis told the Biblical story of the city of Nineveh, which was ''self-destructing as a result of oppression and dishonor, violence and injustice.'' God sent a messenger, Jonah, to warn people and the local king that they must change how they treat one another or the city would be destroyed. The king listened, and Nineveh was saved. ''He sent him to wake up a people intoxicated with themselves,'' Francis said.

It is hard not think that Francis sees his job as exactly the same.