Personal touch helps boutique banks run with the big dogs; 
Window on Wall Street.

ABSTRACT.

The personal touch is helping boutique shops like Centerview Partners compete in the market for advice on deals and strategy.

FULL TEXT.

In a pink marble New York skyscraper opposite the Museum of Modern Art, 20 summer analysts at the investment bank Centerview Partners listened while Robert E. Rubin, the former Treasury secretary, opined on the state of the world.

The analysts had been selected from a few thousand applicants, and most would return after graduation to work long days, nights and weekends at Centerview, which advises big corporations on mergers and acquisitions. Blair W. Effron and Robert A. Pruzan, the firm's co-founders, flanked Mr. Rubin at the head of the table.

The conversation meandered from United States foreign policy to the Greek debt crisis. Then Mr. Rubin asked the students if they were always so preternaturally serious.

''When I was in college, we hung out in coffee shops and pondered the meaning of life,'' Mr. Rubin said. ''We didn't know what a hedge fund was.''

No one took the bait. The summer analysts were all business.

Most of these fresh-faced graduates of elite colleges could have taken jobs at their pick of big banks. But their decision to join Centerview reflects a shift in the center of gravity on Wall Street. Increasingly, large corporations are turning to so-called boutique investment banks like Centerview for advice on deals and strategy.

Boutiques are gaining favor for several reasons: They are unburdened by larger trading and financing operations that can create conflicts of interest. Their smaller staffs mean deals have a better chance of staying secret. And they are luring the industry's most senior deal makers away from big banks.

As the books close on a year that broke records with $4.7 trillion worth of deals, these boutiques have become a more powerful presence on Wall Street than ever before.

Besides Centerview, the list of insurgents includes Lazard, Evercore Partners, Moelis & Company, LionTree and others. Some have been around for decades, while others are just setting up shop, seeking to capitalize on this rapidly changing market for top-dollar advice.

At Centerview, Mr. Effron helped General Electric structure its disposal of GE Capital last year. He helped conceive a plan that would allow Kraft and Heinz to merge in one of the year's biggest deals. And he is advising Pfizer as it works on a $160 billion combination with Allergan.

Alan Hartman, another partner at Centerview, suggested that the health care property company Ventas spin off a major division last year, which turned into a multibillion-dollar deal. Another partner, David A. Handler, routinely spends time with the technology giant Cisco Systems, mulling over potential acquisitions and sometimes simply helping the company think through its quarterly earnings release.

These deal makers are well compensated for their work. Centerview reaped a $60 million fee for helping orchestrate the merger of Kraft and Heinz. It earned $40.8 million for helping Pharmacyclics sell itself to AbbVie in March. For helping Time Warner Cable secure a sale to Charter Communications, Centerview will make $27.5 million. It will receive $44.4 million for advising Salix on its sale to Valeant, and $32 million for helping Omnicare sell itself to CVS.

For these assignments and others, Centerview earned about $600 million last year, according to public filings, a huge sum for a firm with 35 partners.

To be sure, the big banks do all this and more. Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley and JPMorgan Chase were again the top merger advisers last year, capitalizing on longstanding relationships with big companies and the ability to throw a lot of resources at complicated assignments. And when a company needs to borrow billions of dollars to finance an ambitious takeover, it must tap institutions with big balance sheets for loans. Often, companies will hire boutiques and big banks to work together on a deal.

But boutiques, and Centerview in particular, are turning heads as they continue to rake in more fees and bigger assignments. A boutique was involved in each of the eight largest deals of the year, all of them worth $50 billion or more, and Centerview advised on three of those.

Over a sushi lunch in 2005, Mr. Effron, then at UBS, and Mr. Pruzan, at Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein, decided they had enough with big banks and decided to found Centerview. At the time, they were at the vanguard of an exodus of top bankers from big firms, a movement that intensified after the financial crisis.

In the years that followed, dozens of top bankers left big firms to join boutiques. Mr. Hartman had risen to become Bank of America Merrill Lynch's head of mergers and acquisitions for the Americas. But in 2009, he and several top colleagues, including Mark J. Robinson, left to join Centerview.

More recently, Morgan Stanley's top rainmaker, Paul Taubman, left the firm. After orchestrating several megadeals on his own, he merged with Blackstone Group's advisory business, and then took the new firm public in September.

In London, Robey Warshaw, a firm founded in 2014 by UBS and Morgan Stanley executives, is advising SABMiller on its proposed $104 billion sale to Anheuser Busch InBev and is also advising the BG Group on its $72 billion sale to Royal Dutch Shell.

The forces motivating top talent to leave big banks are diverse, ranging from a frustration with bureaucracy to an appetite for riches.

''If you're at a big bank, what you do or your group does doesn't move the needle,'' said Roger C. Altman, founder of Evercore Partners, a publicly traded boutique. ''Above a certain size, no individual can do that. People want to have impact.''

Independent firms can also lead to big paydays. After the financial crisis, boutiques were unburdened by the restrictions that reined in compensation at banks that took government bailouts, and paid deal makers millions without falling afoul of Washington.

And for those who start their own firms, the value of equity can balloon, especially when firms go public. Ken Moelis's stake in his own firm was worth nearly $500 million when it went public in 2014. At Evercore, Mr. Altman has accumulated stock worth about $130 million, according to Bloomberg. And Robert F. Greenhill, founder of his own firm, saw his worth balloon to at least $550 million.

Centerview is not publicly traded, so it is not clear what the equity held by Mr. Effron and Mr. Pruzan is worth. Should they choose to take Centerview public, they would swiftly join the ranks of the world's richest bankers. Both men said there were no plans for an initial public offering.

Yet as Centerview continues gaining momentum, the question is whether Mr. Effron and Mr. Pruzan have created a firm that is built to last.

Small investment banks like Centerview have plenty of vulnerabilities. They are dependent on companies' willingness to pay top dollar for deal advice. A downturn in mergers can dry up business fast.

Even in today's booming merger market, some boutiques are struggling. At Greenhill, fees from advising clients declined to $281 million in 2014 from $303 million in 2011.

And though Mr. Effron and Mr. Pruzan strive to present the appearance of a single firm that transcends individuals, Centerview's clients are loyal to their bankers, whatever firm they happen to work at.

''Our relationship has always been more with Blair Effron than with any one bank,'' said Indra Nooyi, the chief executive of PepsiCo.

Trying to create a bank that is bigger than such personal relationships is Centerview's primary challenge in the years ahead, and is why Mr. Effron and Mr. Pruzan personally select their summer analysts, and try to promote a collaborative culture by taking analysts on cultural outings and bringing in speakers like Mr. Rubin.

''We're looking for our future partners,'' Mr. Pruzan said.

A few days before Centerview's summer analysts chatted with the former Treasury secretary, Mr. Effron held a fund-raiser for Hillary Clinton at his duplex on Manhattan's Upper East Side.

Attendees, including Mr. Altman of Evercore and Mr. Rubin, contributed $2,700 each. Mrs. Clinton spoke for about 30 minutes, took questions and posed for photos.

Close ties to the Clinton campaign aside, Mr. Effron insists that he is focused on building Centerview for another 10 years and more. And despite the lure of I.P.O. riches, the Centerview founders insisted that they were not looking to cash out anytime soon.

''We're taking a longer view of what we are building,'' Mr. Pruzan said.