Reputations at risk over bets on Valeant; 
Window on Wall Street.

ABSTRACT.

William A. Ackman of Pershing Square has stayed in the stock and has sustained enormous losses on paper.

FULL TEXT.

CORRECTION APPENDED.

As an investor, William A. Ackman lives or dies by his big bets. When he is right, the hedge fund titan earns billions of dollars and plenty of accolades.

But when he is wrong, things can turn very ugly. Mr. Ackman's biggest bet yet - Valeant Pharmaceuticals International - has cost him more than a billion dollars in losses, at least on paper.

And he is not alone. Some of the investment world's best-known investors have followed him in staying in the stock and have also sustained losses as a result.

The carnage in the market has helped shrink Mr. Ackman's firm, Pershing Square Capital Management, to $12.2 billion from $19.9 billion just as recently as February of last year. So far in 2016, he has already lost his investors 19.3 percent, much of the decline driven by Valeant. Last year, investors lost 20.5 percent.

With a 51 percent plunge in Valeant's stock price on Tuesday, the pressure is only growing, threatening further losses for Mr. Ackman and putting his reputation as a bold moneymaker at risk.

For one, the drug company is facing a federal investigation into its pricing strategies, and is facing shareholder lawsuits in the United States and Canada. On Tuesday, the company said it would not be able to file its annual financial statement in time, warning that it could default on some of its debt as a result.

Valeant has also become something of a punching bag in the presidential campaign. Hillary Clinton called it ''predatory.''

But if Mr. Ackman has been brought to his knees, you would never know it.

On Tuesday, even as shares of Valeant were tumbling, Mr. Ackman wrote to investors, telling them Valeant was ''worth multiples of the current market price.''

Nonetheless, he sought to reassure his investors.

''We are going to take a much more proactive role at the company to protect and maximize the value of our investment,'' he said, adding that Steve Fraidin, Pershing Square's vice chairman, joined the board of Valeant last week in an effort to take control of the situation.

Mr. Ackman first bought Valeant shares in 2014, in a bid to persuade the company to acquire Allergan, the maker of Botox. Valeant was spurned, and Allergan then agreed to be acquired by another pharmaceutical company, Actavis.

Since then, Mr. Ackman has become increasingly vocal. In October, he held a three-hour conference call to defend Valeant after the stock went into a free fall in the face of concerns about a federal investigation.

''It will take some time for the stock to recover,'' Mr. Ackman said at the time, adding that investors did not appreciate how valuable the company was.

''The biggest regret I have with Valeant is that we're not in a position to buy more,'' he said on Nov. 9. Later that month, he did just that, sharply increasing his position in Valeant to 9.9 percent from 5.7 percent. Pershing Square now has a 9 percent stake, after selling some of its shares at the end of the year, making it the company's second-largest shareholder.

The largest shareholder is Ruane, Cunniff & Goldfarb, an investment fund once known for its ties to Warren E. Buffett.

Ruane, Cunniff increased its stake over the last three months of 2015 and has a 10.4 percent stake. Its position in Valeant caused internal strife at the firm and two of the firm's five directors abruptly resigned over the position in Valeant.

Paulson Partners, a hedge fund founded by John A. Paulson, increased its stake in Valeant during the last three months of 2015, bringing its position to 3.4 percent. Paulson Partners Enhanced, the fund that holds Valeant shares, is down 15.9 percent so far this year.

In October, Mr. Paulson, who made billions of dollars on a bet against subprime mortgages, told investors that concerns about specialty pharmaceuticals like Valeant were ''overblown,'' adding that Valeant had ''significant upside.''

Jeffrey W. Ubben, an activist investor and founder of ValueAct Capital, is another major shareholder in Valeant. Mr. Ubben, who has a 4.4 percent stake and also has a seat on Valeant's board, has defended the company.

Speaking on the cable channel CNBC on Monday, Mr. Ubben called Valeant's chief executive, J. Michael Pearson, ''incredibly driven'' and asserted that things were being resolved behind the scenes.

For investors in these firms, it is hard to see the silver lining in the headlines about Valeant.

Some may recall other Ackman investments that soured. Mr. Ackman's battle with J.C. Penney resulted in a seat on the board in 2011, which led to the appointment of Ron Johnson, the former head of Apple retail stores. But Mr. Johnson's attempts to turn around J.C. Penney failed, causing a big loss in 2013. Eventually, Mr. Ackman resigned, selling his stake at an estimated loss of $473 million.

Mr. Ackman's investors, which include pension funds like the Teacher Retirement System of Texas, have their hands tied, up to a point. Like other hedge funds, Pershing Square puts restrictions on how much and how soon investors can withdraw their money. In some instances, it can be as long as two years.

With the turmoil surrounding Valeant, it is anyone's guess whether the company recovers or falls further in a downward spiral.

But Mr. Ackman is convinced that Valeant will be a comeback story. And it is virtually certain he will have more to say about it in the weeks to come.

''The most powerful tool available to the manager is communication,'' said Ron Geffner, a lawyer for hedge funds at Sadis & Goldberg. ''Being open - intelligent and thoughtful communication with investors.''

CORRECTION:

As published in the International New York Times.

An article on Thursday about a sharp drop in the value of Valeant Pharmaceutical International shares and the effect on a major investor, Pershing Square Capital Management, misstated the year Pershing Square's founder, William A. Ackman, first began to buy Valeant shares. It was 2015 - not 2014, which is the year Mr. Ackman teamed up with the company in a joint takeover effort.

Saturday, March 19, 2016.