Playbook passes the torch.

Seven years ago, I was interviewing for a job at POLITICO (these were the improv days, so no one bothered to tell me which one) when I saw a guy careening down the hallway pushing a mail cart, with Jim VandeHei's giggling children piled inside, laughing like he was a kid himself.

The editor I was talking to, Tim Grieve, interrupted me in mid-sentence to announce, “And… there goes the franchise.”

That was the first time I laid eyes on Mike Allen.

Today, for the first time since June 25, 2007, Mike’s name won’t appear on the Playbook hitting your inbox – and much like the campaign we are covering, the transition presents both traumas and opportunities. The two young reporters who raised their hands for this daunting second act are Anna Palmer and Jake Sherman, two of the most aggressive and best-sourced reporters in Washington.

They are confident, insanely energetic and acutely aware of Mike’s unique talent for establishing electronic intimacies in a marble-cold town and his determination to turn the conventional format of a morning tipsheet into This Town’s small-town newspaper, full of gossip, in-jokes, birthdays, leaked news and “mind-melds” with the campaign and West Wing cognoscenti. They are also conscious of Mike’s nice-guy rep – the meanest he ever really got was to label as “USED NEWS” a story borrowed from one previously published, typically on this website.

Palmer and Sherman, who sat down for POLITICO’s “Off Message” podcast as they were preparing for Monday’s hand-off last week, bring their own assets and sources to the enterprise. And they are hoping to infuse Playbook with their own harder-edged reporting style (along with Capitol Hill Bureau Chief John Bresnahan, they broke a series of bombshells that led to the resignation of free-spending former Illinois Rep. Aaron Schock).

“I think clearly we like to break news,” said Palmer, 34, a North Dakota native who broke into D.C. reporting covering K Street for Roll Call and the Legal Times. “I think Playbook is a great venue for that – we have designs on doing deeper-reported stories. I don't think it will be every week that we’re writing these kinds of stories, but I think we plan on spending a lot of time doing kind of behind-the-scenes, how-Washington-works stories.”

That will be true up to a point, said Sherman, a George Washington University grad whose aggressiveness has driven less energetic reporters (like me) off the Hill beat. “If you look at Playbook, it really is just a village newspaper, and that's what it does best,” he said.

“We’ve got to thread the needle,” added Palmer, about Playbook’s content mix – which will also include a greater number of exclusive newsmaker interviews.

Palmer’s presence – as a young woman in a field dominated by domineering older men – will, in itself, change Playbook’s paradigm. As a young reporter covering the lobbying industry, Palmer encountered her share of barroom leering and over-the-line boorish behavior, which shapes her view of the whole town and will add a new element to the morning mix.

Twelve years ago, when she was breaking in, Palmer accepted a certain amount of sexism as part of the D.C. power game, but she’s become increasingly angry at the dynamic as she’s risen through the reporting ranks. Her advice to young female reporters is to make male sources comfortable and talkative – but to draw the line, and make it clear that crossing it is unacceptable.

(Subscribe to POLITICO's Off Message podcast with Glenn Thrush.)

“I covered lobbying, which is even kind of harder to break into because it’s old, white men -- at least at that time it really was,” she said during a sit-down in POLITICO’s Rosslyn headquarters. “You learn very quickly to have a shield up, that you need to present yourself in a very professional way… the culture is pervasive – drinking and staying out late – because that’s how sources want it and that’s when they’re going to be their most helpful sometimes, and how do you kind of balance that with also not putting yourself in a situation where you become – you get this reputation as a woman who, you know, has sex with her sources.”

That’s the flip side of the small-town newspaper – they can be small-time – and many have a reputation for covering the stories that reflect best on the powers-that-be, and for decades that meant accepting a pinch-on-the-tush gender dynamic.

“Politicians often have that untouchable thing – a power, right? – and they're used to young women being, you know, kind of in awe of them,” Palmer added. “And you’re asking them questions and it’s very easy for them to get a little bit too close and friendly in the Speaker's Lobby, which is in front of everyone, in the middle of the day even. So imagine that you take that out at night.”

Things have changed over the years, she says, especially in the social media era when a politician’s behavior (think Anthony Weiner) can travel at the speed of Twitter. “You can wreck their career in a minute,” she said.

And that entails something of a downshift for both. When Sherman was at Columbia Journalism School, he studied under Wayne Barrett, the legendary Village Voice investigative reporter who uncovered scores of scandals during the Koch and Giuliani administrations; Barrett’s dictum to his interns (repeated to me over the years) was, “It’s not a good story if you don’t get a death threat.”

Playbook won’t go that far, but Sherman wants to use the platform as a real-time fact check, and not just for Donald Trump. “I think because we have the access to the people and I think we will impose— we’re talking to these people and we’ll impose the skepticism in real time, because we know the town and we know how it works. So, if Paul Ryan says something that's nonsense, we– I will have the opportunity of saying, ‘Wait a minute: But X, Y, and Z’ and have him respond to that. And I think that's one way to do it.”

“I think there’s a lot of – this is not reinventing the wheel, right? Playbook is a platform, and it’s a platform to do the kind of journalism that Mike has done, and the journalism that we have also done.”

How that will play out every day is harder to say. The basic function of Playbook, for its 100,000-plus subscribers, is to be indispensable, not necessarily provocative; to arm readers with a sense of what to expect over the next 24 hours, not to explore the weightier social and political problems that fill the columns of dead-tree journalism.

Both Palmer and Sherman confess to being nervous about how they’ll balance all of these priorities. But the characteristic that binds them most closely to their predecessor is a belief that any challenge can be surmounted with work. Sherman, in particular, has an annoying habit of keeping his eyes glued on his iPhone when engaging in conversation with a living interlocutor. Often he’s checking in with the next person he’s peppering. Like Allen, their days begin at 4:30 a.m. and are filled with endless calls, along with face-to-face meetings, breakfasts, lunches, coffees, dinners, drinks, second dinners, second drinks, every single day.

“We like to work,” he told me.

A final (and personal) note, about Mike Allen. One of the greatest and most underappreciated strengths of POLITICO, over the years, has been the willingness of those in charge to hire people with wildly divergent approaches and personalities – and let them do their thing.

Mike’s individuality – the fact that POLITICO allowed him to chart his unconventional and innovative course – has made the place more creative and more accommodating to reporters who want to break a mold or two.

There are dozens and dozens of stories about Mike, and here’s mine:

Two summers back, I was dealing with a serious illness, going stir-crazy during my recovery at home, when a Fed Ex driver, to my annoyance, rang the doorbell to deliver what I thought was another fruit basket. Instead, he handed me a thick, maniacally taped manila envelope – one of Mikey’s patented care packages.

Inside was a gift he knew would lift me out of my dark mood – a commemorative Daily News pullout on the history of the New York Mets. When I saw an oversize picture of my childhood hero, the 1970s-era catcher Jerry Grote, I laughed and laughed, for the first time in days.

I never thanked him for that, so I’ll do that now. Best of luck, Mikey.