Atlantic City officials welcome Trump-Clinton fight over their misfortune.

ATLANTIC CITY — Hillary Clinton descended on this struggling seaside town on Wednesday afternoon, delivering a blistering critique of Donald Trump's failed casino ventures that doubled as a grim reminder of the city's sagging fortunes.

“Donald Trump says he’s qualified for president because of his business record,” Clinton said, standing in front of a faded sign for the shuttered Trump Plaza. “What he did for his business and workers is nothing to brag about. In fact, it’s shameful. And every single voter in America needs to know about it, so he won’t do to our country what he did to Atlantic City.”

Despite the negative sheen, local officials said they welcome the national attention.

“At this point, I don’t think there is bad publicity," said Atlantic City Mayor Don Guardian in a telephone interview. "We’ve made bad mistakes and have been making them for 50 years. We need to diversify our economy, and we were a bit foolish, being single-minded.”

Guardian said he understood why Clinton would travel here to scrutinize Trump’s failed ventures, since the city was clearly “devastated” by the casino closures and thousands of residents lost their jobs.

“The Taj is having some difficult times now — going through bankruptcy,” Guardian said. “There’s certainly a story there, about the failures of these properties and the effect it had on Atlantic City.”

But Guardian, the first Republican mayor elected in Atlantic City in two decades, stopped short of fully endorsing Clinton's criticisms.

He said that when Trump’s properties did well, the developer was a “good corporate citizen," who was involved in the community and gave back to local charities. And the mayor said it would be difficult to measure just how much Trump contributed to the city’s financial ruin.

“That’s an interesting question. I think you could write a whole history book on that,” said Guardian, who declined to say who he plans to vote for.

Clinton's visit comes as municipal officials are scrambling to develop a municipal cost-cutting plan by the fall, to forestall a state takeover of the city's finances.

Gov. Chris Christie — who is being vetted as a possible running mate for Trump — made revitalizing Atlantic City a priority in his first term, but the effort stalled, and he has battled with Guardian over how best to stabilize the city's finances, at one point calling the mayor a "liar" who was not "honorable."

Trump blamed local officials on Twitter before the speech. "Hillary Clinton should ask why the Democrat pols in Atlantic City made all the wrong moves - Convention Center, Airport - and destroyed City," he wrote. "Even the once great Caesars is bankrupt in A.C. Others to follow. Ask the Democrat City Council what happened to Atlantic City."

Clinton, for her part, sided with Guardian.

"You’ve got a city council and a mayor working hand-in-hand," she said in her remarks. "And if your governor would start doing his job instead of following Donald Trump around holding his coat, maybe we could really get New Jersey’s economy moving again."

Guardian hopes that Clinton’s focus on Atlantic City could produce a positive outcome for the city, pointing to the sale of some city-owned plots of land for $1.7 million at a real estate auction in June.

City Council president Marty Small said that Clinton’s trip to Atlantic City is an “incredible opportunity.”

“It’s a positive story that the presidential candidates are making Atlantic City part of their platform,” said Small, who attended the rally. “They understand our plight. Both Christie and Trump have horrible histories when it comes to Atlantic City and that needs to be exposed.”

Democrats largely echoed Clinton's line of criticism — that Trump's penchant for declaring bankruptcy hurt small businesses that contracted with his casinos, and employees who ultimately lost their jobs.

Small, who attended the rally on Wednesday, said that “Trump bagged millions of dollars and took advantage of bankruptcy laws to hurt the little people.”

“A lot of businesses are still hurting because of his shenanigans,” he said.

“In the primary debates he pooh-poohed this Atlantic City bankruptcy as normal business,” said Sen. Jim Whelan who represents Atlantic City and served as its mayor for many years. “But it was a big deal for the businesses that went under and the people who went under.”

State Senate President Steve Sweeney, who also serves as a top official in the state iron workers union, said contractors eventually built a Trump cushion into their bids.

“As a construction guy, he put a lot of people out of business, too" Sweeny said after an event in Edison on Wednesday. "In fact, there was an old saying down there, when people would bid his projects, you would bid him 20 percent higher, because you knew that he would screw you out of the money. Just so you know. I know that’s a fact.”

Clinton spoke just down the street from the Trump Taj Mahal — now owned by investor Carl Icahn — where about 50 protesters had gathered on Wednesday morning, chanting "no contract, no peace" after the union failed to reach a contract on Friday. The Taj stopped giving health insurance and pension benefits to the workers almost two years ago.

Mayra Gonzalez, a cook at the Taj, said it was important for Clinton to publicize Trump’s failures in the city.

“It’s a great opportunity for us,” said Gonzalez, 55, of Brigantine. “Look what [Icahn’s] been doing to us and Trump did it too.”

County freeholder Ernest D. Coursey said it was important that Clinton "let the people on the picket line know that she hears them."

“All of Trump’s properties had gone to hell in a handbasket, the only thing that’s surviving on a shoe string is the Taj Mahal,” he said. “I’m not going to tell you Trump didn’t do good things in the heyday, but in the later years Donald got his money and ran, while there are still folks here who are starving.”

Coursey noted that Clinton was speaking in the shadow of the same convention hall that hosted the Democratic convention of 1964. (The negative press coverage from that convention helped Atlantic City make the case for legalized gambling, which was later approved in 1976.)

“All roads to the White House are leading through Atlantic City,” he said.

--additional reporting by Linh Tat.