Virginia governor restores voting rights to felons.

Virginia Gov. Terry McAuliffe on Friday announced that he had signed an executive order that effectively restores the civil rights, including the right to vote, of 206,000 felons, who have been banned from voting in the state since the Civil War.

"Today is a day in Virginia for celebration," McAuliffe said in making his announcement in Richmond, noting that it was a priority for him as a gubernatorial candidate.

During his announcement, McAuliffe noted that he had already helped restore voting rights to 18,000 Virginians since taking office in 2014. But in a historic shift from more than 150 years of state law, McAuliffe said that more than 200,000 felons, convicted of both violent and non-violent crimes and having completed their sentences, will be restored their voting rights.

"With this action, we will send a message to these 206,000 individuals and to the world that Virginia will no longer build barriers to the ballot box, we will break them down," he said, adding that the state would send a "strong message that Virginia is a place where people make mistakes, they serve their time [and] are welcomed back as full members of our society, not second-class citizens who have to jump through all these hoops."

Anticipating blowback, McAuliffe remarked that he had consulted Attorney General Mark Herring and scholar A.E. Dick Howard at the University of Virginia, both of whom advised him that the order was within constitutional bounds.

"I want to be crystal clear. There may be some individuals who try and demagogue this issue and will make reckless accusations," he said. "Our action today does not pardon or change the sentence of any man or woman affected by this grant. These individuals have completed their sentences. They have atoned for their actions. They live, work and raise families in communities all across the commonwealth, and they will continue to contribute to our communities, but they now will do it with the full rights of citizens."

McAuliffe also addressed the fact that a majority of the felons now eligible to vote are African-American, long a core constituency of the modern Democratic Party. Those who now have the right to vote, he said, must still register to do so.

"I have no idea how these men and women actually voted," he said of people whose voting rights were previously restored, "But I do know that when they cast their ballot, they made an investment into the community where they lived and they took a step away from a difficult past toward a much brighter future."

Democratic front-runner Hillary Clinton was the first candidate to weigh in on the occasion, tweeting her appreciation Friday afternoon.

"Proud of my friend @GovernorVA for continuing to break down barriers to voting," she wrote.