Polls suggest Kasich has best chance of beating Clinton.

Though he mathematically has no shot at winning the GOP nomination outright, John Kasich appears to have the best odds of beating Hillary Clinton in a general election fight, according to three recent polls, including one from Monmouth University released Thursday.

When Kasich is matched up against Clinton, 45 percent of registered voters nationwide said they would vote for the Ohio governor, compared to 39 percent for the former secretary of state. Against Clinton, Kasich leads with men, voters between the ages of 18 and 54and white non-Hispanics, while Clinton holds a narrower advantage among women and a wider lead among those who are not white.

Both Ted Cruz and Donald Trump trailed Clinton, the front-runner for the Democratic nomination, in their own head-to-head scenarios, by 5 and 10 percentage points, respectively. Kasich also finished ahead of Clinton in hypothetical matchups in recent polls from Quinnipiac and Fox News, by 8 points and 11 points, respectively.

Even Lindsey Graham, who has endorsed Cruz despite their own colorful history of disagreements, said Thursday that Kasich would be the best presidential candidate and a better president.

“I think John Kasich would be the best nominee, but he doesn't have a chance,” Graham said on MSNBC's "Morning Joe," adding, “John Kasich's problem is he is an insider in an outsider year, and nobody seems to want to buy that."

In a theoretical three-way race between Trump, Clinton and Libertarian candidate Gary Johnson, Clinton earned 42 percent, Trump 34 percent and Johnson 11 percent.

The Monmouth poll also suggests that Kasich and Bernie Sanders are the only candidates still in the race who are seen more favorably than not. Whereas Clinton had a net negative rating of -11 points (40 percent positive to 51 percent negative) and Trump is far below at -30 points (30 percent to 60 percent), Kasich's favorability sits at +32 points (50 percent to 18 percent), though 32 percent said they had no opinion of him. Approval of Cruz, while still a net negative 6 points (37 percent to 43 percent), has risen 8 points since October and 12 points since last June.

Monmouth conducted its poll March 17-20 via landlines and cellphones, surveying 1,008 adults nationwide, including 848 registered voters. For that subsample, the margin of error is plus or minus 3.4 percentage points.