Sex, 'lies' and the Grayson family drama.

As Rep. Alan Grayson’s Senate campaign began falling apart over allegations he beat his ex-wife, he blasted out a new robocall touting a Grayson for U.S. House campaign.

Grayson, however, wasn’t dropping out of the Senate race and running for reelection. Instead, he was phoning Wednesday on behalf of his new wife, Dena Minning Grayson. She married him during the election season on Memorial Day weekend, when she was running as Dena Minning. She promptly changed her last name and began campaigning as his ideological and familial heir in a district where she didn’t live and was once a complete political unknown.

But now that Alan Grayson is bleeding support and staff as top fellow Democrats call on him to quit the Senate race, Dena Grayson’s relationship with her new husband is starting to vex her.

For starters, the ex-wife of Alan Grayson who filed multiple domestic violence reports against him blames Dena Grayson for committing adultery with the congressman before the divorce.

“In the last few years of my marriage, Alan Mark Grayson was unfaithful to me with Dena Minning,” Lolita Grayson wrote Thursday in an email to POLITICO, marking the first time she named Minning, who is otherwise listed as one of the congressman’s alleged “paramours” in his ex’s divorce filings.

Neither Alan Grayson nor Dena Grayson’s campaigns would respond to the new claims from Lolita Grayson or a list of questions submitted for this story.

Grayson’s name started to become politically toxic on Tuesday after POLITICO published a story detailing four domestic-abuse police reports Lolita Grayson filed against him during two decades of marriage. He denied the charges and counter-accused her of battery. Later that day, Grayson had a tense run-in with a POLITICO reporter, caught on video, when he refused to discuss the matter.

Grayson then quickly lost endorsements, staffers and a campaign consultant.

“Having whacked his ex-wife around few times, he has lost support even from the liberal groups. I don’t know who supports him other than himself,” said Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid, who called on Grayson months ago to quit the Senate race.

As the events unfolded this week, though, Grayson hit the phones on behalf of his wife, with a robocall to voters in the district. But those who back her opponents say the widespread negative news media attention this week has likely damaged the Grayson brand.

The new allegations of adultery against Grayson and his new wife aren’t the only charges of betrayal he faces.

The congressman’s longtime political adviser and former congressional staffer, Susannah Randolph, was his heir apparent to run for his Orlando-based 9th Congressional District, where she has a reputation as a top progressive operative. But after Dena Minning came on the scene and Grayson decided to run for Senate, he told Randolph and others that she should step aside, according to numerous sources.

Randolph wouldn’t comment for this story.

When Randolph refused to bow out, Grayson began vilifying her and trying to force her out of the race, according to numerous fellow Democrats.

Rep. Lois Frankel — like Reid, a supporter of Grayson’s Democratic Senate primary opponent, Rep. Patrick Murphy — recalled Grayson giving her the same line about his then-fiancée. At the time, she said, Grayson was trying to get Florida’s Democratic House delegation to pressure Randolph to run for another congressional seat. He promised to defeat Randolph and state Sen. Darren Soto thanks to the Grayson name, which is well known in the district, Frankel said.

“She’s going to have my name, and I’m going to spend a lot of money on television,” Grayson said, according to Frankel.

Randolph told others that he called her at one point and leveled the same threat.

At a March meeting of the Congressional Progressive Caucus, of which he is a member, Grayson argued that the group should not endorse Randolph and instead support his girlfriend.

“It was unseemly: Alan definitely tried to torpedo Randolph’s endorsement. He kept calling her a liar and said she spread lies. It was awful,” said one of two witnesses who relayed the same story but didn’t want to speak on the record for fear of retribution from the congressman.

Grayson said Randolph “would have no chance to win,” the source recalled, adding that Grayson said of his fiancée: “I’m going to marry her. She’s going to have the Grayson name. And she’s going to win.”

California Rep. Jared Huffman, a member of the progressive caucus member who now wants Grayson removed from the group, said he had heard that account. Huffman said he would have attended the meeting where the caucus decided endorsements if he thought Grayson would get his way. The group went ahead and formally backed Randolph.

“Grayson is singularly unpersuasive in our caucus because he’s so terrible. He is our party’s Donald Trump,” said Huffman, who does not support Grayson’s opponent, Murphy.

If Grayson loses the Aug. 30 Senate primary and his wife wins her House primary on the same day against Randolph and Soto, critics like Huffman say it would help Alan Grayson exercise influence over the congressional seat without holding office and being subjected to congressional ethics rules, which he appeared to run afoul of when he drummed up business for his hedge fund while in Congress.

“People are right to be suspicious of her [Dena Grayson’s] entire candidacy,” Huffman said.

Her husband’s dominant role — he is by her side in TV ads and mail pieces — isn’t the only question mark hovering over Dena Grayson’s campaign. She falsely presents herself as a practicing physician, even donning a white doctor’s coat and a stethoscope in her first TV ad, which is narrated by Alan Grayson. She has a medical degree but has not practiced in almost two decades, and is not licensed to practice — a fact first reported by Christopher Heath, an Orlando TV reporter for WFTV9.

Dena Grayson was a lobbyist for a biomedical firm, but she doesn’t mention that on the campaign trail.

After she first began seeing Grayson, his campaign staffers in 2014 tried to keep her away from political events in the district for fear of the appearance of a member of Congress dating a pharmaceutical lobbyist while he was involved in a nasty divorce case that began in January of that year, according to sources. Staffers later dated the beginning of the affair to a 2013 trip to Africa after seeing the two post separate Facebook photos of wild gorillas they saw on the journey.

The Graysons are sensitive about the Africa trip. After FOX13’s Craig Patrick asked about it in a recent interview, the Graysons became “agitated” once the cameras were off, according to a source at the Tampa station. The source said Grayson demanded to know which rival campaign leaked the information about the trip. Patrick wouldn’t comment.

In Washington and during political events outside the district before they were married, the two became increasingly open about their relationship. By mid 2014, she took to wearing a “spouse’s pin” — normally reserved for those actually married to a member of Congress.

Before she met Grayson and got married, Dena Minning lived well outside the Orlando core of Florida’s 9th Congressional District and, instead, approached people in her home county of Brevard to drum up support in 2013 for a congressional bid against Republican Rep. Bill Posey. She was rebuffed.

“No one knew who she was, and while she is certainly smart and very pretty, we told her that maybe she should run for the state House or state Senate or a smaller seat because she had no political experience and nobody knew who she was,” said Patricia Farley, who belonged to a local Democratic women’s club and is now vice president of the Democratic Women’s Club of Florida.

“I know the Kennedy family. I want to run for Congress,” Dena Minning replied at the time, according to Farley’s account.

Minning ultimately didn’t run, and Farley said she wasn’t heard from again in the district until 2015, when she appeared as Grayson’s girlfriend.

One of Grayson’s former supporters who still backs Randolph, former Colorado Rep. Pat Schroeder, lives in his Orlando-based district and wrote in an email to POLITICO that Dena Grayson’s campaign was “tragic in the Year of the Woman, when a woman should run on her own accomplishments.”

Instead, Dena Grayson “is trying to take a shortcut by grabbing his name for a fast-track to Congress. Unfortunately, the campaign has just hit a massive pothole,” Schroeder wrote.

“This is the year to break glass ceilings, not try on glass slippers.”