Casino revenue up slightly this year, helped by internet betting.

Gambling revenue at Atlantic City’s eight remaining casinos increased 3.5 percent in the first 10 months of the year compared to the same period in 2014, with internet betting continuing to grow more successful, according to data released Friday by state gaming regulators.

The casinos won slightly less in October than they did the same month last year, with revenue dipping 1.3 percent to $191.6 million, according to the state Division of Gaming Enforcement. Four casinos — Bally’s, Caesars, Harrah’s and Trump Taj Mahal — reported year-over-year revenue declines.

Overall, the remaining casinos in Atlantic City reported $2.17 billion in gaming revenue in the first 10 months, about $74 million more than a year ago. Counting the four casinos that closed last year, though, gambling revenues are off more than $182 million compared to the same period in 2014 — 7.7 percent.

Gaming revenue is up this year at five of the casinos: Golden Nugget by 29 percent; Resorts by 17.6 percent; Borgata by 8.2 percent; Harrah’s by 4.3 percent; and Tropicana by 4.7 percent. Revenue fell by 17.7 percent at Trump Taj Mahal, 5.5 percent at Bally’s and 5.0 percent at Caesars.

Internet gambling, which become legal in late 2013, continued to be a small saving grace, with online revenue up nearly 36 percent in October and nearly 18 percent so far this year. But online betting was once thought to be a billion-dollar cash machine. So far it has produced less than $122 million in revenue this year.

Atlantic City’s gaming industry has been in a free-fall for nearly a decade, with casino earnings dropping steadily since peaking in 2006 at $5.2 billion. Last year, the casinos earned just $2.74 billion, the lowest take since 1988.

Trouble started when casinos began opening up just across the border in Pennsylvania, drawing away some of the regulars who kept New Jersey’s betting parlors afloat. The situation was worsened by the recession that began in 2008, but it was the rise of competition across the Northeast that truly led to Atlantic City’s downfall.

Four casinos — Atlantic Club, Showboat, Revel and Trump Plaza — closed last year.

The closures appear to have brought some stability to the remaining casinos, although some continue to struggle. New Jersey officials, including Gov. Chris Christie, are hoping they will win a federal appeals court case next year that would allow the casinos to offer sports betting. In the long term, though, the conversation has pivoted to allowing casinos outside of Atlantic City and sending some revenue back to prop up the industry there.