Top Senate candidates pointing fingers at 'poison pill' in House bill for failed Zika funding.

As the number of Zika virus cases grows in Florida, the leading candidates in the state’s nationally-watched U.S. Senate race have seized on the public health crisis to attack each other for not doing enough to fight the problem.

At the heart of the messaging battle is a $1.1 billion Zika funding bill crafted by the House. Under that plan, the feds would have directed funding to hospitals and other health care facilities, but not women’s health clinics like Planned Parenthood. Senate Democrats blocked the bill because they said the language was an untenable “poison pill.”

Both campaigns in Florida’s heated Senate race are using the failed legislation to portray their opponent as the poster child for congressional obstructionism. The political fight comes as Zika cases in Florida eclipse the 600 mark. On Tuesday, state health officials discovered at least one case in Pinellas County, a long way from Miami-Dade County, the epicenter of the problem.

Murphy’s campaign is tying the House bill to Rubio, who supported the bill when it came to the Senate for a vote. They are saying his vote for that plan is a signal he wants to play politics and not solve the funding problem.

“Who is the real con man here?” said Murphy, using a term Rubio has used to describe Donald Trump, on a conference call with reporters. “Senator Rubio and the Republican Congress produced partisan bills that shortchanged the crisis and played politics with women’s health and contraceptive funding.”

He was joined on the call by IIyse Hogue, president of the abortion rights group NARAL. She said Rubio “has failed to do anything beyond furthering his own political aspirations.” The group has taken an interest in Zika because the disease has been linked to birth defects.

Rubio has previously said that mothers that contract Zika should not be allowed to have abortions.

The Murphy conference call did not mention, however, that Rubio broke ranks with his own party and supported Barack Obama’s original call for a $1.9 billion Zika funding package. Legislation offering that amount passed the Senate with Rubio’s support. He made his support for Obama’s funding plan clear in a June letter to members of Congress directly working on a Zika funding strategy.

"I ask you to consider fully funding the fight against the Zika virus," Rubio wrote. "Florida, along with Puerto Rico, are expected to be the hardest hit by detrimental impacts of the Zika virus, and it is imperative that Floridians, Puerto Ricans and all Americans are protected by all available resources and courses of action."

Rubio’s campaign is also trying to make Zika a central focus of the Senate campaign.

Shortly after Murphy’s conference call ended, Rubio’s campaign sent out a press release saying Murphy owes “Florida an explanation for repeatedly voting against Zika funding.”

Among the votes: Murphy’s opposition to the $1.1 billion House Zika funding proposal. But Rubio's press release does not mention the language restricting money to women’s health clinics, which was the provision in the bill Murphy and other Democrats most strongly opposed and Obama said he would have vetoed.

It also points out another House bill that made available $622 million for Zika funding. Democrats opposed it because it fell far short of Barack Obama’s original $1.9 billion request and because it diverted funding from other areas. The legislation passed the House again over veto threats from the White House.

“Patrick Murphy owes Floridians an explanation for why he’s the only candidate in this race who has repeatedly voted against every Zika funding measure that has come before him in Congress,” Michael Ahrens, a Rubio spokesman, said in a statement.

In the face of congressional inaction, both Obama and Gov. Rick Scott have redirected funds to deal with the expanding Zika problem.

Scott has freed up $26 million in state funds to address the problem and on Monday announced $5 million more was being sent to Miami-Dade County for Zika preparedness and mosquito control. Meanwhile, the Obama administration reallocated $81 million from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services to fight the virus.

POLITICO Florida reported earlier this month that during his administration Scott had cut mosquito-control programs, including eliminating state money for a pesticide-testing facility that was known as the “mosquito lab.”

The Democratic and Republican primaries are set for Aug. 30, with Ru bio and Murphy expected to win and face each other in the November general election.