Standing with activists, Mark-Viverito pillories Sanders’ immigration record.

City Council Speaker Melissa Mark-Viverito took to the steps of City Hall Wednesday to assail Sen. Bernie Sanders’ immigration record ahead of next week's competitive New York primary.

“It’s important that New Yorkers understand that while Hillary Clinton has been fighting throughout her entire life, Senator Sanders has not only been entirely absent from our community but has also stood on the wrong side of the issues that matter most to Latinos,” Mark-Viverito said.

The speaker’s remarks followed a roundtable discussion with the former secretary of state and the New York State Immigrant Action Fund — a political action committee associated with the New York Immigration Coalition. During the event, Clinton unveiled a proposal to create a national Office of Immigrant Affairs tasked with coordinating policies and programs across federal agencies and local governments.

Mark-Viverito has served as one of Clinton’s campaign surrogates throughout this week as Clinton continues to lead in polls despite Sanders’ popularity among younger voters.

Standing alongside labor leader and civil rights activist Dolores Huerta, who co-founded the United Farm Workers, and Dream Act activist Dan-el Padilla Peralta, Mark-Viverito accused Sanders of being inactive in the years-long effort for comprehensive immigration reform and chided him for siding with Republicans.

“When given the option, Sanders turned his back on Latinos. When given the option, Sanders sided with the anti-immigrant right. And when given the option, Sanders voted against keeping Latinos and immigrant families together,” Mark-Viverito said.

The speaker specifically focused on Sanders’ 2007 vote against a bill which had bipartisan support and would have overhauled the immigration system, as well as his support for a bill that essentially protected the Minute Men — a civilian group working along the southern border to prevent immigrants from crossing over.

Sanders has said he opposed the 2007 immigration bill because of its guest worker provisions. At the time, Sanders sided with Republicans and a coalition of labor unions who feared the bill would allow employers to hire lower-skilled workers willing to work for lower wages.

Huerta praised Clinton’s history with the Latino community, crediting her with convening the first ever conference on Latino youth in Washington. Huerta also applauded Clinton’s ability to work across party lines.

“What we need in the White House is someone who can really make things happen,” Huerta said.

The Sanders campaign has responded to criticism on immigration issues by pointing to Clinton’s own record, including her work to kill a proposal that would have allowed undocumented immigrant New Yorkers to obtain a drivers license.

Asked about that vote specifically, Mark-Viverito pointed to Clinton’s current support for licenses and praised her for changing her position.

“She supports licenses now and we are interested in moving forward on ensuring that we support comprehensive immigration reform. We believe this is just a distraction that the Bernie Sanders campaign has shown. I have seen clear commitment with regards to how she is going to help immigrant communities,” Mark-Viverito said.

Mark-Viverito, who is term limited from office and has been rumored to be pursuing a position in Clinton’s administration if she were to win the presidency, declined a question about whether she would lead the Office of Immigrant Affairs Clinton had announced earlier.

“Any other question? Alright, thank you very much,” she said.