Trump: 'We are going to win so much.'

Donald Trump was magnanimous in declaring victory Tuesday night — but all signs of his immediate post-Iowa humility were gone.

Instead, he was back to boasting about "winning" and pledging to make American great again, while taking slams at Democratic winner Bernie Sanders and totally ignoring Hillary Clinton.

“We are going to start winning again and we are going to win so much," Trump said at his victory party in Manchester, two hours after news outlets declared him the victor in the New Hampshire GOP primary. "You are going to be so happy.”

He immediately blasted Sanders, who had given his own victory speech just before him.

“I heard parts of Bernie’s speech," Trump said. "He wants to give away our country, folks.”

But Trump also struck populist notes similar to those Sanders had sounded, trumpeting what he called his self-funded campaign and his independence from lobbyists and special interests. “I think one of the things that really caught on — self-funding my campaign,” Trump said.

“We are now going to make [deals] for your benefit," he added. "We are going to make the deals for the American people.”

Trump never mentioned Clinton, who trailed Sanders by more than 20 points with more than three-quarters of the results in.

He nodded only obliquely to his second-place finish in Iowa behind Ted Cruz.

"You know, we learned a lot about ground games in one week, I have to tell you,” he said.

Trump acted the part of the GOP front-runner at the start of his speech, thanking Republican National Committee Chairman Reince Priebus and congratulating the Republicans who had finished far behind him — though he quickly moved on. “Now that I got that over with...,” he said.

Trump reiterated many of the campaign pledges he's been making for months: rebuilding the military, taking care of veterans, protecting the Second Amendment and building a wall on the Mexican border.

“We’re going to build a wall," he said. "It’s going to be built. Believe it or not, it’s not even a difficult thing to do.”

He pledged to be "the greatest jobs president that God ever created" and cast doubt on the official unemployment rate of 4.9 percent, suggested that the real unemployment rate could be as high as 42 percent.

Trump thanked his parents, his siblings, his wife and his children, as well as his campaign manager, Corey Lewandowski, and his spokeswoman, Hope Hicks.

He said his wife, Melania, "said right from the beginning, 'You know, if you run you know you’re going to win.'”

With 76 percent of the vote counted in the GOP primary, Trump was leading with 34 percent of the vote. John Kasich was in second with 16 percent, with Cruz, Jeb Bush and Marco Rubio behind him.