The presidential candidates' favorite TV shows sound about right.

The presidential candidates briefly put away their policy papers and disclosed personal notes with People Magazine for a special campaign issue, such as a typical breakfast, hidden talent and the perfect date night. Perhaps most telling, though, were the candidates’ favorite television shows.

Democratic front-runner Hillary Clinton, for example, named “Madam Secretary” as her guilty-pleasure TV show. The CBS drama follows Secretary of State Elizabeth McCord, a former CIA analyst who returned to public service at the request of the president.

“Sometimes us ex-diplomats need our fix!” Clinton said to People. The former first lady and U.S. senator headed the State Department from 2009 to 2013, and much of her presidential campaign has been bogged down by the revelation that she exclusively used a private email account and server during her time at Foggy Bottom.

Bernie Sanders, the independent Vermont senator who is challenging Clinton and former Maryland Gov. Martin O’Malley for the Democratic nomination, enjoys “Modern Family.” Grandpa Bern, as he’s affectionately known by his grandchildren, described a day at home with his grandchildren in Burlington, Vermont, as the perfect day off.

Donald Trump, the Republican front-runner and former host of the reality show “The Apprentice,” listed an NBC show as his guilty pleasure: “Saturday Night Live” — and more specifically his most recent appearance.

“My guilty pleasure TV show — ‘SNL,’ starring me,” the billionaire business mogul told People. “They got great ratings. The best ratings in years. It was a terrific success. I enjoyed doing it.”

Trump’s appearance delivered ratings 57 percent higher than its fall average. According to Variety, Trump brought “SNL” its highest ratings since Jan. 7, 2012, when NBA Hall of Fame player Charles Barkley hosted and inaugural “American Idol” winner Kelly Clarkson performed. “It was 50 percent more than Hillary’s show,” Trump added to People. “That makes me feel good.”

Texas Sen. Ted Cruz, who has experienced a surge in Iowa, named “Criminal Minds,” “Game of Thrones,” “Breaking Bad” and “Veep” as his top shows.

Sen. Marco Rubio and former Gov. Jeb Bush have more in common than their Miami ties. They also enjoy similar shows. The Florida senator likes “The Walking Dead,” while the former Florida governor loves “Lilyhammer.” “The Walking Dead” is an AMC drama that follows a zombie apocalypse; “Lilyhammer” follows a mobster-turned-witness who relocates to Norway to evade his adversaries.

“Loved ‘Lilyhammer’ on Netflix — wish they had another season coming!” Bush said.

New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie has been busy campaigning in New Hampshire, but his guilty pleasure is “Football Life.” Christie has attended numerous New York Jets and New York Giants football games since becoming governor, racking up a concessions bill in excess of $80,000, according to a New Jersey Watchdog report released by the governor’s office. However, he is better known as a Dallas Cowboys fan.

“You know, stacked up on my DVR are a bunch of ‘Football Life’ on NFL Network and I haven’t been able to watch,” Christie said. “I’ve got six of ‘em stacked up right now. But when I really feel like just completely zoning out, I watch these things called ‘A Football Life,’ little biographies of former football players.”

Former Hewlett-Packard CEO Carly Fiorina named a Washington favorite as her guilty pleasure. “’House of Cards,’” she said, “although I haven’t had time to binge watch the last season!” The Netflix drama follows South Carolina Rep. Frank Underwood’s rise in politics.

Former Arkansas Gov. Mike Huckabee rounded out the list of presidential candidates interviewed, citing “Bill Maher” as his guilty pleasure.