Obama slams GOP’s ‘doom and despair’ on economy.

The Denver Broncos and the Carolina Panthers haven’t kicked off yet, but President Barack Obama is already dancing in the end zone.

Obama on Friday held an impromptu press briefing to brag that the unemployment rate has fallen below 5 percent for the first time in eight years and to once again rail against his GOP would-be successors for warning about an America in decline.

"I know that’s still inconvenient for Republican stump speeches as their doom-and-despair tour plays in New Hampshire. I guess you cannot please everybody," Obama told reporters.

Unemployment dipped to 4.9 percent in January, with the economy adding 151,000 jobs during the month – something you wouldn’t know if you listen to the likes of Donald Trump and his GOP rivals, Obama said.

“Those who are running down the economy and adding to the anxiety don’t seem to have any plausible, coherent recipe other than cut taxes for those who have been doing the very best in this economy and somehow magically, that’s gonna make other folks feel good," Obama said. "Or, alternatively they argue the reason you’re feeling insecure is because immigrants, or poor people are taking more and more of your paycheck and that is just not true. The facts don’t bear that out.”

Obama hailed the record streak 71 months of private-sector job growth, challenging Republicans to prove to him that the American economy is not the best on Earth.

“The United States of America right now has the strongest, most durable economy in the world," he said. At the same time, Obama remarked upon the fact that there is still "more work to do," noting flagging economic conditions in China, Europe and in developing markets.

The number marked a symbolic victory for Obama, who has often complained about not getting enough credit for bringing the economy back out from the gutter after the housing bubble burst on George W. Bush’s watch.

The unemployment rate was at 7.8 percent when Obama took office in January 2009 and peaked at 10 percent in October of that year. The impact of Obama’s massive stimulus package that passed in February 2009 has been the subject of fierce debate, and his oversight of the auto sector bailout was much derided at the time.

During the 2012 election, Mitt Romney largely ran on his ability to jolt the economic recovery into hyperdrive and accused Obama of bungling the rehabilitation. He pledged that he would get the unemployment rate down to 6 percent over a period of four years — a milepost that Obama was able to hit in September 2014.

In an example of how sensitive Obama is about his economic legacy, he used his State of the Union address this year to forcefully call out Trump and the rest of the GOP field who he accused of preying on the anxieties of Americans who have not yet fully experienced the recovery.

"Anyone claiming that America’s economy is in decline is peddling fiction," Obama said last month.

On Friday, Obama took a lighter tone, still calling out the Republicans while reveling in the economic recovery. “We should be proud of the progress we've made. We have recovered from the worst economic crisis since the 1930s,” he said.

He also wished reporters a fun weekend. “I hope you guys have a wonderful Super Bowl party,” he said.