Al Gore to skip Democratic convention.

Al Gore’s self-imposed exile from politics will extend to this week’s Democratic National Convention.

Citing “obligations in Tennessee,” the former vice president’s spokeswoman told POLITICO that Gore plans to skip the festivities in Philadelphia where his former boss’s wife will accept the Democratic presidential nomination. The Tennessean first reported Gore's decision earlier Sunday.

Gore remains one of the last Democratic Party luminaries not to make a formal endorsement of Hillary Clinton. Betsy McManus, Gore’s communications director, told POLITICO last fall that he’d wait until a nominee had been formally selected to weigh in. But it’s been more than a month since Clinton sewed up the necessary delegates, and Gore has maintained his silence on the 2016 presidential race.

Gore’s close friends and allies have in the past said he was staying quiet in order to make climate change a more potent issue with the presidential candidates and also because of his complicated relationship with the former first lady that dates back more than 20 years.

In a 2014 interview with POLITICO Magazine, Gore insisted it was “premature” to back Clinton’s campaign for president while adding on climate change matters, “I don’t have any doubt that her heart is in the right place on the issue and that she would like to be an agent for positive change on the issue.”

Philadelphia will actually mark the second straight Democratic convention that Gore will miss. He wasn’t in Charlotte, North Carolina, in 2012 either when President Barack Obama ran for reelection. Instead, Gore was in New York anchoring coverage of the DNC from Current TV, the liberal television network he later sold to Al Jazeera.

“His world seems to be always full and outside the political world,” said Kiki McLean, a spokeswoman for Gore’s 2000 presidential campaign.

Earlier Sunday, Gore declined an interview request from POLITICO. “He’s not available this week,” McManus wrote in an email.

Gore, the Democrats’ 2000 presidential nominee who lost to George W. Bush in one of the closest elections in U.S. history, was a featured speaker at the 2004 and 2008 conventions.