Republicans blast Obama after North Korea claims nuclear test.

Presidential candidates in both parties condemned North Korea's claim to have conducted the successful test of a hydrogen bomb on Wednesday, with Republicans taking shots at the current White House.

Sen. Marco Rubio responded first, ripping into President Barack Obama late Tuesday night.

"I have been warning throughout this campaign that North Korea is run by a lunatic who has been expanding his nuclear arsenal while President Obama has stood idly by," the Florida senator and Republican presidential candidate said in a statement.

“If this test is confirmed, it will be just the latest example of the failed Obama-Clinton foreign policy," he said. "Our enemies around the world are taking advantage of Obama's weakness. We need new leadership that will stand up to people like Kim Jong-un and ensure our country has the capabilities necessary to keep America safe."

In her statement condemning the test, Hillary Clinton defended her record as secretary of state.

“As Secretary I championed the United States’ pivot to the Asia Pacific — including shifting additional military assets to the theater — in part to confront threats like North Korea and to support our allies. I worked to get not just our allies but also Russia and China on board for the strongest sanctions yet," Clinton said.

Sen. Ted Cruz, meanwhile, warned that the incident could foreshadow the future with Iran, remarking that it put into clear relief the need to scrap the nuclear agreement reached last year. Ben Carson, speaking with The Des Moines Register editorial board, called the incident a reason for the U.S. to reinvest in its space program.

In an interview with "Fox and Friends," Donald Trump pointed to China as the regional enforcer, remarking that the U.S. should make things harder on Beijing if it does not lean in on North Korea.

Sen. Bernie Sanders on Wednesday morning also called upon the U.S. to press China into forcing North Korea to abide by international norms.

"China is equally concerned about what North Korea is doing. North Korea is a paranoid, isolated nation," the independent Vermont senator and Democratic presidential candidate told ABC's "Good Morning America." "When you have a hydrogen bomb, if that’s true, you are a threat to China as well.”

By Wednesday afternoon, the White House cited initial analysis that showed inconsistencies with North Korea's claim that it had successfully tested a hydrogen weapon.

"There’s nothing that’s occurred in the last 24 hours that has caused the United States government to change our assessment of North Korea’s technical and military capabilities," White House press secretary Josh Earnest told reporters. "Now, I hasten to add that we’re continuing the work necessary to learn more about the nuclear test that North Korea conducted last night. But you’ve probably seen by now the extensive independent analysis that’s been done in the United States and in other countries that includes significant and understandable skepticism about the claims of the North Korean — skepticism of the claims of the North Korean regime."

The U.S. Geological Survey said it detected a 5.1-magnitude earthquake about 30 miles from a known test site.

The apparent test's ripple effects reached New York, where the United Nations Security Council on Wednesday called an emergency session following those reports.

Defense Secretary Ash Carter spoke with his South Korean counterpart Han Min-koo "to discuss potential alliance responses to the recent apparent North Korean nuclear test," according to a Pentagon readout.

NATO's secretary general, meanwhile, called on the North Korean regime to abandon its nuclear weapons and comply with the international community.

"The nuclear weapons test announced by North Korea undermines regional and international security, and is in clear breach of UN Security Council resolutions," NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg said. "North Korea should abandon nuclear weapons and existing nuclear and ballistic missile programs in a complete, verifiable and irreversible manner, and engage in credible and authentic talks on denuclearization."

Yukiya Amano, director general of the International Atomic Energy Agency, said in a statement Wednesday that, if its claims are true, North Korea is violating U.N. Security Council resolutions — which he added “is deeply regrettable.”

“I strongly urge the [Democratic People’s Republic of Korea] to implement fully all relevant resolutions of the U.N. Security Council and the IAEA,” he said. “The IAEA remains ready to contribute to the peaceful resolution of the DPRK nuclear issue by resuming its nuclear verification activities in the DPRK once a political agreement is reached among the countries concerned.”

In December, the White House expressed doubt that North Korea had the capability to build a hydrogen bomb, which in theory would have vastly more explosive power than the Pyongyang regime's existing capabilities.

"At this point, the information that we have access to calls into serious question those claims, but we take very seriously the risk and the threat that is posed by the North Korean regime in their ambitions to develop a nuclear weapon," Earnest told reporters at the time.

Nuclear proliferation experts have similarly discounted Pyongyang's claims, but have speculated that North Korea might be able to boost its "explosive yield" through other means — including a so-called fusion fuel such as tritium.

“Tritium would enable nuclear weapons designs that could have a greater explosive yield than weapons made from only plutonium or weapon-grade uranium,” nuclear experts David Albright and Serena Kelleher-Vergantini of Washington's Institute for Science and International Security wrote in September. “Whether North Korea can make nuclear weapons using tritium is unknown although we believe that it remains a technical problem North Korea still needs to solve.”

"Building a staged thermonuclear weapon—one in which the radiation from a fission primary compresses a secondary stage of thermonuclear fuel—would seem to be a bit of a stretch for the North Koreans," Jeffrey Lewis of the James Martin Center for Nonproliferation Studies wrote in December.

But, he noted, "while a staged thermonuclear weapon is likely more than North Korea can, at the moment, achieve technically, it is a mistake to rule out the aspiration by Pyongyang. An H-bomb might not conveniently fit our perception of North Korea, but perhaps that is Kim’s point."

Nolan McCaskill contributed.