Carson: Cruz taking 'Benghazi' approach to Iowa controversy.

The "dirty tricks" that Ben Carson accused Ted Cruz's campaign of perpetrating on caucus night are not on the same level as Hillary Clinton's reaction to the Benghazi attacks, the candidate said Friday. But the attitude about both situations is similar.

Carson has shown little signs of stemming his seething fury toward Ted Cruz's campaign, slamming the Texas senator on multiple occasions for failing to act proactively to stem the tide of misinformation regarding his candidacy in the minutes leading up to Monday's Iowa caucuses.

"I would have said if I didn’t agree with what’s being — which he did say that — I would make sure that it didn’t happen again," Carson noted in an interview with Todd Starnes' podcast, as reported by BuzzFeed News. "And I would take corrective action. Not to take corrective action is tacitly saying eh, it’s OK, or it’s sort of like, as Hillary Clinton said after Benghazi, ‘what difference does it make?’”

Asked by Starnes if he believed the situation was at the same level as the Benghazi attacks, Carson said that he did not, but was referring to the "same kind of attitude. The attitude being, it’s water under the bridge, it’s gone by, let’s not deal with it."

Continuing to explain his perspective, Carson rejected the notion that the episode should be water under the bridge, saying that if he "found something that was rotten and that I didn't agree with, I would fix it."

The retired neurosurgeon addressed his concerns in another interview with "The View," remarking from New Hampshire he did not feel “this is a very difficult investigation."

The Cruz campaign on Monday night picked up on tweet from a CNN reporter that appeared to insinuate Carson was dropping out after Iowa but failed to pass along the subsequent tweet (that Carson was just leaving the trail temporarily to get fresh clothes in Florida) to its organizers on the ground.

"Is this what we accept now? Or do we have higher standards than that? Because that will determine what kind of society we’re going to be," he told the show.

The Cruz campaign did not immediately respond to a request for comment.