POLITICO New York's Culture-Business Report: The difficulty of dumping Trump.

Welcome to POLITICO New York's Culture-Business Report, a weekly digest of news from New York’s arts and entertainment industries.

Want to receive this in your inbox? Sign up by entering your email and clicking the "subscribe" button:

An interfaith rally by the city’s political and religious leaders on Wednesday had one message: "Dump Trump."

Led by Council Speaker Melissa Mark-Viverito, the rally denounced Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump’s call for "a total and complete shutdown of Muslims entering the United States.” The politicians and religious figures in attendance were unanimous in their condemnation of Trump’s comments.

But “dumping Trump” is easier said than done in New York City. With city-issued contracts to operate two Central Park ice rinks, the Central Park carousel, and a Bronx golf course, Trump has a firm foothold in New York’s entertainment venues. And city officials aren’t sure how to cut him out.

“It’s unanimous,” councilmember Mark Levine said of the council’s support for terminating Trump contracts. The problem, however, is finding the legal basis for abandoning these long-term business deals, which he estimates will not expire for another four to ten years. “The city’s law department says that they have worked very, very hard to find an out, and that they can’t find one,” he added.

As chair of the city’s Committee on Parks and Recreation, Levine has pushed Mayor Bill de Blasio to abandon city contracts with Trump. De Blasio, however, has found himself in the same legal bind, according to spokesperson Monica Klein.

“In August we reviewed the city’s existing contracts with Donald Trump and found no legal way to cancel these contracts,” Klein told POLITICO New York in an email. “In the future, however, the Mayor said he would not go out of his way to do any business with Mr. Trump.”

Levine suggests that Trump’s negative reputation is devaluing these entertainment venues, possibly providing the city with a legal argument for ending business entanglements with Trump.

“There is language in the contract that gives the [Parks] commissioner the authority to terminate as long as it’s not in an arbitrary and capricious manner,” Levine said. “I’m not a lawyer so I can’t tell you what conditions would qualify as arbitrary and capricious, but to me there’s such a clear and compelling case that [these venues] are suffering reputational harm, and that’s justification to void these contracts.”

But when contacted, a spokesperson for the Parks and Recreation Department said the department would follow City Hall’s lead on the issue, and that comment should be obtained through City Hall spokespeople.

For Trump’s part, his organization has argued that its contracts are protected under the First Amendment, and that Trump’s political speech should have no bearing on his business deals.

“They’re not terminable at will,” Trump spokesperson Ron Lieberman told the Wall Street Journal in July, after de Blasio stated an interest in ending business with Trump. “These contracts are fully binding.”

Levine says he agrees with this sentiment up to a certain point, one which Trump’s rhetoric has now surpassed.

“Look, there’s a real argument for not letting the political speech of someone who has a contract with the city interfere with their business relationship,” Levine said. “And I agree with that in almost every circumstance. This is special because this isn’t a non-profit running a homeless shelter or a company that has a contract to clean up city office buildings. This is a contract in which the name of Donald Trump is emblazoned on public assets.”

WELCOME! Questions? Tips? Events? Email me, kellybweill@gmail.com, and follow @kellyweill for real-time updates throughout the week.

FAREWELL—"The Living Room to close at the end of December," by Times' Ben Sisario: "The Living Room, a no-frills nightclub that gave an early start to Norah Jones and the Lumineers, and for almost 18 years has hosted countless singer-songwriters in three locations in Manhattan and Brooklyn, will close at the end of December, its owners, Steve Rosenthal and Jennifer Gilson, announced on Tuesday. The club, founded in 1998 in a cramped space at the corner of Allen and Stanton Streets on the Lower East Side … moved to a more spacious room on Ludlow Street in 2003 but closed last year after being priced out of the neighborhood, Ms. Gilson and Mr. Rosenthal said. Late in 2014 it moved again, to an even bigger space in Williamsburg, where the club had a balcony and a rooftop bar — palatial digs compared to its first home — but it struggled to establish itself there." http://nyti.ms/1U0Xvbm.

NOW OPEN—"Pop-up art show strives to confront South Bronx gentrification," by DNAinfo's Eddie Small: "Curators of a pop-up art show in the South Bronx are determined to confront the area's gentrification fears and avoid the accusations of insensitivity that have befallen several previous shows in the borough. The No Longer Empty Curatorial Lab, a program that the arts group No Longer Empty offers to help emerging art curators, recently set up an exhibit at 900 Grand Concourse called 'Intersecting Imaginaries' that centers on the theme of literal and conceptual mapping." http://dnain.fo/1NJeFcM.

MOVING SHOP—"High-end contemporary art gallery opening across from Whitney Museum," by DNAinfo's Danielle Tcholakian: A high-end art gallery that represents street artists from around the world is relocating to a space across from the Whitney Museum. Allouche Gallery, formerly at 115 Spring St. in SoHo, signed a lease for a 5,125-square-foot ground floor retail space at 86 Gansevoort St. owned by TF Cornerstone. Cornerstone representatives said the relocation will draw Whitney visitors interested in perusing 'highbrow artwork' that they can buy." http://dnain.fo/1HTeElU.

NEW YORK AT ITS CORE—"For City Museum’s new director, a job of balancing history with crowd-pleasers," by The Wall Street Journal's Jennifer Smith: "Ms. Donhauser, 48 years old, hasn’t previously led a museum. But she spent the past 23 years as a fundraiser and manager at one of the largest and wealthiest ones in the world, the Metropolitan Museum of Art, most recently as senior adviser to its president. In January, Ms. Donhauser will move some 20 blocks uptown to take the helm at the City Museum [which] aims to expand its audience with a splashy, multimillion-dollar exhibition on four centuries of New York City history. Set to open next fall, the long-term installation, 'New York at Its Core,' will take up the entire first floor of the museum’s building on Fifth Avenue between 103rd and 104th streets, where a $97 million renovation project under the current director, Susan Henshaw Jones, is drawing to a close." http://on.wsj.com/1lHHbkb.

BROADWAY BEAT—"Matthew Morrison is leaving ‘Neverland,'" by Times' Michael Paulson: "Matthew Morrison, the star of 'Finding Neverland,' is leaving the Broadway musical next month. Mr. Morrison, who plays J.M. Barrie, the British playwright who wrote “Peter Pan,” has been with the show since it began previews in March. His contract is expiring; the show has not yet announced a replacement ... He is departing 'Finding Neverland' on Jan. 24, just five days after Kelsey Grammer, an actor famed for his role in 'Cheers,' returns to the cast in a dual role, as Captain Hook and the theater producer Charles Frohman." http://nyti.ms/1RHiWiu.

—"‘Hamilton’ to play Chicago in long-term run starting in 2016," by Variety's Gordon Cox: "Ultrahot Broadway musical 'Hamilton' will ride its wave of hype and popularity all the way to Chicago, where a production of the show will begin a long-term run starting in the fall of 2016. The Windy City’s 'Hamilton' will mark the first step in the international rollout of the show, which on Broadway has become a megaselling celebrity magnet to which it’s nigh-impossible to score a ticket. If the musical expands in the way other Broadway smashes have, a West End staging is certain to follow, as well as a national tour." http://bit.ly/1Qz0RCt.

—"Sam Mendes leaves ‘Chocolate Factory’ on its way to Broadway," by Times' Michael Paulson: "Sam Mendes is withdrawing as the director of the Broadway-bound musical 'Charlie and the Chocolate Factory,' allowing the producing team free rein to rework the commercially successful but critically divisive show before it opens in New York. Mr. Mendes will remain a part of that producing team — his company, Neal Street Productions, is mounting the musical alongside Warner Bros. Theater Ventures and Langley Park Productions. The show has been running at the Theater Royal, Drury Lane, in London’s West End since 2013." http://nyti.ms/1RcZGKu.

STAT OF THE WEEK: $43 million—the amount of money in subsidies the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey approved for News Corp. and 21st Century Fox to relocate from midtown Manhattan to lower Manhattan, Dana Rubinstein at POLITICO New York reports: http://politi.co/1NeJqEY.

PSA—"You have until the end of December to get free museum and zoo memberships," by DNAinfo's Nicole Levy: "You have a few more weeks to snag free memberships to cultural institutions in all five boroughs when you sign up for an IDNYC card, the government-issued identification card available to all New Yorkers age 14 and up. Through Dec. 31, a new ID card will get you a free one-year membership to 33 institutions, including the New York Botanical Garden, the Brooklyn Academy of Music, the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the New York Hall of Science and the Staten Island Zoo. Membership packages offer such perks as invitations to special events, gift shop discounts and complimentary admission." http://dnain.fo/1HSB5rF.

"Met accused of whitewashing baby Jesus," by Post's Kathianne Boniello: "A Manhattan man is suing the Met, claiming it’s committing sacrilege by depicting Jesus as a blond. 'Racist' paintings portraying Christ as an 'Aryan' male should be removed from the walls of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, Justin Renel Joseph argues in his Manhattan Supreme Court lawsuit. The masterpieces are 'offensive aesthetic whitewashing' of the reality that the Savior, as a native of the Middle Eastern region, had 'black hair like wool and skin of bronze color,' says Joseph, 33, who is acting as his own lawyer." http://bit.ly/1N4Ghaw.

SHORT READS:

—"'Flesh and Bone' star refused to get a breast reduction," by the New York Post's Amy Spencer http://nyp.st/1l7lvhq.

—"An NYPD sketch artist gets a gallery show," by Hyperallergic's Carey Dunne: http://bit.ly/1NSbMIk.

—"Posthumous books could come with a lot of dollar signs," by Boston Globe's Joseph P. Kahn: http://bit.ly/1ICP930.