Mark Cuban: I'd consider a future White House bid.

Mark Cuban, the billionaire owner of the Dallas Mavericks who rebuffed pleas from conservatives to run for president, says he's open to running in the future.

"Well, it's certainly more of a consideration than it was," Cuban said in an interview airing Sunday on NBC's "Meet the Press." "You don't have to be the perfect Stepford candidate like you would've been in the past."

Pushed by host Chuck Todd on what could bring him to run in 2020 or 2024, Cuban demurred.

"It's too early to tell," said Cuban, who is also a host on the TV show "Shark Tank." "I mean, depending on what happened with, you know, whoever's elected, depending on what happens with the economy because the reality is, there's so much uncertainty with the economy."

"There're so many variables that I don't have the answers to," he said.

A self-professed independent, Cuban said he'd consider offers to serve as vice president from both presumed Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump and Democratic presidential front-runner Hillary Clinton.

Clinton, though, would have to "go more to center," Cuban said.

"And I'd have the same conversation for Donald," Cuban said. "I think Donald has a real chance to win, and that's scary to a lot of people. But what's scary about it to me is that you can see him now trying to do what he thinks is right to unify the party. And he's listening to everybody, which is fine on the surface. But what's also happening is it's coming across as if he's proposing things based off the last person he talks to."

Trump's grasp of policy and temperament are worrying, Cuban said.

"You know, it's possible for anybody to change," he said when asked about Trump's temperament. "But, you know, I just don't see evidence that he wants to change. I think he's trying to do what he thinks is the right thing right now. But there's just so much coming at him at once, he's looking for shortcuts. And this is just not a job where there're shortcuts."

Cuban also gave a preview of what his own candidacy might look like. He pronounced his support for free-trade agreements, higher taxes on Wall Street and efforts to drive down college tuition, which he said has increased because of "easy money."

Cuban also said he supports President Barack Obama's signature achievement, the Affordable Care Act.

"From an entrepreneur's perspective, it's given entrepreneurs the chance to leave jobs they were stuck in and get insurance where they otherwise might not have had it," Cuban said.