Rep. Gwen Graham slams Trump, praises Clinton as 'work horse, not show horse.'

TALLAHASSEE — Democratic U.S. Rep. Gwen Graham on Friday pummeled Donald Trump as divisive while praising Hillary Clinton as a "work horse, not a show horse."

Her remarks came the day after Republicans completed their four-day convention in Cleveland and the same day Clinton made two campaign stops in Florida. She was in Orlando in the morning and Tampa in the afternoon.

"[Trump] doesn't speak for anyone who thinks our country should be standing together," Clinton told a cheering throng of supporters in Tampa in a rally broadcast on the major cable television networks.

Graham spent the afternoon with millennials and more seasoned Democratic volunteers at the party headquarters in downtown Tallahassee contacting to prospective Clinton supporters as part of a phone bank.

Graham said she was “impressed” with Trump’s children, but lamented that Ivanka Trump’s presentation of Trump didn’t match up to reality.

"I was hoping to see more of what Ivanka sees in her father,” Graham said. “So I was disappointed when he was the version of Donald Trump that worries me greatly. I don’t think making people more scared, and more worried and more concerned is the path forward."

Graham contrasted that with Clinton who is looking to bring "people together to accomplish the goal.”

Graham is not running for reelection to Congress, but is mulling a run for Governor in 2018. She said she is headed to Philadelphia next week for the Democratic National Convention, which begins Monday.

In Orlando, Clinton made an impromptu stop at the Pulse nightclub in Orlando, where 49 people were killed June 12 by a lone gunman in a mass shooting, the Associated Press reported Friday. She placed a bouquet of white flowers at the site next to a candle and a framed picture of a cross.

Clinton was joined by Sen. Bill Nelson (D-Fla.), first responders and community residents at the makeshift memorial outside the club, the AP reported.

Clinton made the brief visit after a somber meeting with community leaders and family members who were affected by the shooting, according to AP.

Earlier in the day, Clinton held a roundtable meeting with Orlando community leaders and pledged to “promote the kinds of changes that will prevent this from happening to other people, other families and other communities," the Orlando Sentinel reported.

"We have to be willing to stand as one and demand changes from lawmakers at the federal, state and local level ... We have a lot of work ahead of us,” said Clinton.

The newspaper reported that the Democratic presidential candidate met privately with a several victims before the start of the roundtable discussion.