GOP big-money group whacks Clinton in Christmas ad.

Hillary Clinton’s getting a holiday greeting from a big-money Republican super PAC on the day after Christmas, and — surprise, surprise — it won’t bring her much cheer.

The Future45 group, funded by major GOP donors, is planning to plaster New Hampshire independents’ and holiday shoppers’ screens with a Christmas-themed Web ad starting Dec. 26.

Titled “A Very Clinton Christmas,” the 30-second video pans around images of Christmas gifts that evoke some of the Democratic front-runner’s biggest controversies in recent months, while a voiceover recites a rhyme.

“’Twas the morning of Christmas at the Clinton house, the gifts were all opened: a new server, a mouse,” says the ad’s narrator, going on to detail a series of other “gifts.”

The shot then covers a series of presents, including a paper shredder, a Christmas card from Russian President Vladimir Putin (featuring the famous image of him sitting shirtless on a horse), checks with the names of foreign governments, and — while the narrator mentions “classified emails” — paper burning in a fireplace.

While Future45 isn’t associated with any Republican candidate, some of its biggest backers include Paul Singer and Ken Griffin, high-profile hedge fund managers who are backing Marco Rubio. The PAC has joined a handful of other independent Republican efforts in focusing relentlessly on Clinton while she pursues the Democratic nomination.

This latest spot, which will run statewide in New Hampshire, zeroes in on controversies that have receded from most national headlines in the past few weeks, while Clinton’s national lead over Bernie Sanders has grown.

Future45 has been hitting Clinton with ads in Iowa and New Hampshire recently, and its new effort is timed to kick off just as the former secretary of state and Sanders both step up their presences in those two states. While Clinton leads in Iowa and nationally, she trails the Vermont senator in the RealClearPolitics average of New Hampshire polls by nearly 9 percentage points.