Pence blames media for Trump's 'Obama founded ISIS' flap.

LA CROSSE, Wisc. — Gov. Mike Pence on Thursday blamed the media for making an issue out of Donald Trump’s claim that President Barack Obama “founded ISIS,” saying they were nitpicking at Trump's wording while missing the larger truth of Trump's remarks.

“The media’s talking today about another controversy over semantics,” Pence said at a town hall here. “Let’s be very clear: It was Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton who helped undo all the hard fought gains in Operation Iraqi Freedom that our soldiers won and secured that nation."

Pence continued: "When President Obama became president, it’s important to remember, that Iraq was essentially stable and it was Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton that withdrew American forces precipitously without what’s called a status of forces agreement, and they created the very vacuum in which ISIS was able to be spawned and conjured up as it were, compromising large areas of Iraq and bringing violence to that part of the world, to our allies in Europe and inspiring violence here at home.”

Trump said Obama was the founder of ISIS on Wednesday at a Florida rally, and he reiterated them on Hugh Hewitt’s radio show Thursday — where he seemed to differ with Pence’s interpretation of his remarks. After Hewitt suggested that Trump simply meant that Obama’s policies created the conditions in which ISIS could emerge, Trump contradicted him.

“No, I meant he’s the founder of ISIS,” Trump responded. “I do. He was the most valuable player. … He was the founder.”

Rep. Sean Duffy (R-Wisc.) also addressed the controversy when introducing Pence Thursday. “Maybe not literally, but if you look at the policies of Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton, they set the policy up that ISIS could rise,” he said.

The root causes of ISIS' formation are hotly debated, and Pence is not alone in his contention that Obama and Clinton's handling of the end of the Iraq war led to the group's rise. Obama did not, however, personally found ISIS.

A poll from Marquette Law School released Wednesday found Clinton leading Trump by 15 points among likely voters in Wisconsin, 52 percent to 37 percent.

Pence's comments came at a town hall in this Wisconsin town, where he took questions from the crowd. During the discussion, Pence pledged that Trump “really is” in favor of free trade, but wants “smarter and tougher” trade deals. He also spoke about the proposed border wall, saying it will be “as big as it needs to be.”

The last question at the event was from a young child, who said he and his father drove to the event from Omaha, Nebraska — about six hours away.

“How big is that wall?” asked the boy, who was wearing a 'Make America Great Again' hat and said his name was Mason, as the audience laughed and applauded.

“Mason let me tell you, how big is that wall going to be?” Pence said in response. “As big as it needs to be.”