Record-setting 2016 spending spree reaches beyond ads.

More than $167 million has already been spent on television and radio ads in the presidential race, but the candidates and their supportive super PACs likely have combined to spend far more than that on other political campaign essentials such as staff salaries, direct mail, digital ads and yard signs, according to a POLITICO analysis.

It will start becoming clear at midnight Sunday which campaigns and super PACs built the most robust and sustainable operations. That's the deadline for candidates and the super PACs devoted them to file reports with the Federal Election Commission detailing their finances through the end of 2015.

But a POLITICO analysis of other data identified at least $130 million in spending on things other than television and radio ads. The analysis relied on thousands of so-called “independent expenditure” reports that super PACs, PACs, nonprofit groups and party committees are required to file with the FEC each time they spend money to support or oppose any federal candidate by name. It also used data on television and radio ad buys in the presidential race ― aggregated by The Tracking Firm ― which it subtracted from the disbursements made by the presidential campaign through the end of September.

Taken together, the analysis offers tantalizing clues about strategies that candidates and their allies pursued in the run-up to the voting kickoff on Monday with Iowa’s pivotal caucuses.

Digital ads were a key focus for super PACs supporting presidential candidates, which reported spending a combined total of more than $10 million on advertising on Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, Google and the like.

A super PAC supporting Marco Rubio’s campaign for the GOP nomination, Conservative Solutions PAC, led the way, dropping $2.5 million on such ads. While most of the spending went to ads extolling Rubio’s virtues, more than $800,000 was spent on ads attacking rivals Chris Christie (who was the target of $480,000 of the super PAC’s digital advertising), Ted Cruz ($311,000) and Donald Trump ($13,000).

Right to Rise USA, the super PAC supporting Jeb Bush, spent $1.2 million on digital ads ― all of which went toward trying to boost the former Florida governor’s flagging campaign for the GOP nomination, as opposed to attacking his rivals. That’s quite a contrast from Right to Rise’s television campaign, which has included millions of dollars in ads attacking candidates vying with Bush for support from the Republican establishment, including Rubio and Ohio Gov. John Kasich.

Other major spenders on digital ads were a family of super PACs supporting Texas Sen. Ted Cruz’s GOP campaign. The PACs, all of which have variations of the name Keep the Promise, spent $890,000 on costs related to digital advertising. They combined to spend $332,000 on payments to a company called Cambridge Analytica, which specializes in building what it calls “psychographic” profiles of voters to try to win them over with narrowly targeted micro-messages.

The firm ― which is owned partly by Cruz’s biggest super PAC donor, New York hedge fund manager Bob Mercer ― also is doing business with Cruz’s campaign. It owed Cambridge Analytica $556,000 for “survey research” and “donor modeling” through the end of June ― the period covered by the campaign’s most recent FEC filings. The filings due Sunday night are expected to show that Cruz, who has boasted of his appeal to the overlapping demographics that comprise the GOP base, did significant additional business with the firm.

Data, which forms the backbone for all manner of voter outreach techniques, was a major expenditure for a number of super PACs playing the presidential campaign.

The super PACs supporting Kasich and Kentucky Sen. Rand Paul paid a combined $176,000 for voter files (and various interfaces to make use of the information, including phone banking services) to i360, a data firm owned by the Koch brothers’ political operation.

All told, super PACs and other outside groups spent more than $2.5 million on phone banking, robo-calls and other phone-related expenses to persuade voters in the presidential race, according to POLITICO’s analysis. An overwhelming majority of that ― $1.7 million ― was spent on phone calls opposing Democratic front-runner Hillary Clinton.

Clinton was also the target of $768,000 in reported direct mail attacks by conservative groups, including one PAC called Stop Hillary and another affiliated with Citizens United, the group that brought the lawsuit that led to the Supreme Court ruling that paved the way for super PACs. Direct mail, which is often a much costlier form of voter contact than digital advertising, is nonetheless considered an effective technique for reaching older voters.

Overall, conservative outside groups reported spending $6 million attacking Clinton using various means, while liberal groups, including labor unions and groups supporting gay rights and abortion rights, reported spending only $1 million supporting her.

Clinton’s allies have long been concerned that the main super PAC supporting her, Priorities USA Action, will not be able to match the fundraising of big-money conservative groups opposing her. Priorities USA raised $16 million in the first half of 2015 ― compared with $103 million raised by the pro-Bush Right to Rise ― though the pro-Clinton group is expected to report before the Sunday deadline that it raised more in the second half of the year than in the first.

Trump, the real estate showman who has maintained a surprisingly large lead over the GOP pack, was targeted by $4.4 million in attacks from both liberal outside groups like Priorities USA and unions, as well as conservative groups. The fiscally conservative Club for Growth Action reported spending $1.1 million on online and television ads attacking Trump, while a new anti-Trump super PAC started by a former Mitt Romney aide has reported spending $1.8 million on direct mail and online and television ads trying to knock down Trump.

And, while Trump boasts that he doesn’t have a super PAC and is not beholden to big donors who fund such vehicles, a trio of PACs have in fact reported spending $513,000 supporting him. Much of that spending, though appears to be from groups that spend a majority of their money on fundraising and consulting fees, such as the Conservative Action Fund, which has been widely derided as a so-called scam PAC. Dan Backer, the fund's lawyer, treasurer and strategist, has rejected the label, noting that it costs money to raise money.

"Fundraising is the B-side of every political communication. Unless you've got huge-dollar donors, which would be nice, but isn't the case here," Backer says. "To call political communications that include fundraising requests to further that communication as somehow nothing more than a fundraising request is a shallow perspective."

The Democrats’ leading anti-establishment candidate, Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders, also decries super PACs and other big-money groups. But FEC reports show that a quartet of groups that can accept unlimited donations have spent $1.1 million supporting him.

National Nurses United for Patient Protection, the super PAC connected to the nation’s largest union of registered nurses, has reported spending more than $1 million on ads, rallies and other voter outreach in support of Sanders. The group is paying for a bus tour that’s been crisscrossing Iowa stumping for Sanders. It’s become such a presence on the trail that Sanders during a Sunday thanked its members “for their support in my campaign” and called National Nurses United “one of the sponsors of my campaign and I appreciate that.”

Smaller pro-Sanders expenditures came from the nonprofit groups Democratic Socialists of America Inc., Friends of the Earth Action and Iowa Citizens for Community Improvement Action Fund. They have spent nearly $80,000 combined on mailers, T-shirts, bumper stickers and organizing-related costs to support Sanders, but have not been a major visible presence on the trail.

Among the big-money 2016 players that have drawn the most puzzlement is a super PAC supporting retired neurosurgeon Ben Carson’s fading campaign for the GOP nomination. The 2016 Committee has spent more than $1 million on all manner of knickknacks ― from $272,000 on clothing, mugs and magnets to $375,000 on books and audio books. As POLITICO revealed, most of the payments for books were to purchase copies of a book written by the super PAC’s chairman, John Philip Sousa IV, which were to be distributed to the committee’s field staff.