Charter supporters make their case to delegation.

PHILADELPHIA — The state delegation’s breakfast is about as close to a captive audience of reliable Democratic voters that an advocate can get.

So one of the groups advocating to raise the cap on charter schools, Massachusetts Democrats for Education Reform, has sponsored two of the convention's breakfasts to help win over the party faithful.

The charter school ballot question has emerged as a particularly thorny topic for Democrats, pitting party members aligned with the public school teachers union against party members who support charters and other reforms.

The ballot question seeks to raise the current cap on charter schools by 12 schools every year.

“And I think in a state like this where such a large percentage of the population are Democrats or vote Democrat, on a ballot question, on a policy issue, you’re always going to have Democrats on both sides,” said Marty Walz, chair of the Massachusetts DFER advisory council. “We’re Democrats. We talk a lot. We don’t always agree on things.”

Democrat through and through, AFL-CIO president Steven Tolman is certainly on the anti-charter side.

“This charter school question is a wolf in sheep’s clothing,” Tolman told POLITICO Massachusetts earlier this week. “The concept of charter schools started as laboratories of innovation. We were supposed to see what is innovative and works. Now we’re on this train where they want to take over our public school systems.”

Walz approaches it a bit more diplomatically. She said she'd rather see money spent to elect Hillary Clinton than seeing it spent on the campaign to stop the cap increase.

“They’re essentially trying to defeat opportunity for kids," she said "Ultimately the vote no campaign is saying to families, ‘You have to stay on the wait-list.’”

The ballot question fight is expected to be a top-dollar operation for both sides. The issue will compete for time and space with other ballot questions, Senate races, and, of course, the presidential campaign.

So, for DFER, another option is to go to where the voters are.

“Our job is to minimize the number of opponents and maximize the number of yes-votes,” Walz said. “That’s what we’re going to do between now and Nov. 8.”