The Trump-GOP feud lives on.

It was exactly the kind of scripted political photo-op that Donald Trump loves to disparage as phony, yet there he was, waving to a phalanx of photographers outside RNC headquarters, smiling and playing along.

For an hour, the Republican Party’s presumptive nominee sat face to face with House Speaker Paul Ryan, who just a week ago surprised Trump by declaring he couldn’t yet support his candidacy. And soon after it was over, both men issued a statement expressing optimism about working together – Ryan saying he was “very encouraged” and Trump calling it a “great meeting.”

But those platitudes are window dressing, a temporary distraction from the still-real rift dividing the GOP’s intellectual class personified by Ryan and the frustrated, blue-collar base that has anointed a billionaire populist as the party’s new standard-bearer.

Indeed, while Trump, Ryan and RNC Chairman Reince Priebus have spent the last week trying to tell the country that there’s nothing to see here, there is, in fact, still plenty to see.

There’s money and a joint fundraising agreement between the RNC and Trump’s campaign that is still needs to be hammered out. It's likely the most pressing concern for both sides. Trump's ability to monopolize earned media enabled his campaign to succeed without a serious fundraising operation. His dominance of a wide GOP primary field and the unpredictability of the race has left many of the party's traditional donors on the sidelines and the RNC millions of dollars behind expectations. Now both sides are playing catch-up as they try to cobble together an agreement to match the joint fundraising agreement Hillary Clinton and the Democrats have established, which includes 32 states and can accept donations of up to $356,100.

Then there’s Cleveland and questions about Ryan’s role as chairman of convention that the former reality TV star-turned-candidate is eager to control.

And of course, there are the real policy differences between the party’s professional class and Trump, and questions about whether the nominee will adhere to positions elemental to the GOP platform.

While Trump is looking to smooth over potential disagreements, his campaign brass is sounding far less conciliatory. Recognizing the daylight between some of the candidate's positions and the traditional GOP platform, Trump's inner circle believes that the nominee has earned the right to dictate the terms of the convention schedule, vendor contracts and party platform.

"It's the nominee's party," one Trump campaign source said. "He gets to set the rules and if you don't like it, work harder next time."

Ryan and Trump will never be a natural match. One is a thoughtful policy wonk burdened with the responsibility of holding together a fractious coalition of conservatives. The other shrugs off policy minutiae, speaks in a popular, often incendiary vernacular and won the Republican primary by accentuating the intra-party divide and encouraging the base’s general revulsion for establishment leaders. But their marriage is, at least for the moment, one of necessity—for both sides.

“Trump needs to quiet the ‘Never Trump’ crowd,” said Bruce Haynes, a GOP strategist in Washington. “Ryan on the other hand needs straight tickets and a unified party to get every vote for every caucus member he can. The fewer split tickets the better.”

Ryan is certainly feeling some pressure as members of his caucus, including his two deputies, Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy and Whip Steve Scalise, have thrown their support behind the presumptive nominee. Ryan’s endorsement of Trump, many think, is only a matter of time.

“Ryan will do this in a thoughtful and deliberate way because that is who he is,” Haynes said. “But the gravity pulling him there is very strong.”

Trump’s campaign entered Thursday’s conversation believing they have more leverage than the party’s establishment figures.

“What Reince and the mainstream media don't understand is that Trump is bigger than the Republican Party,” said one Trump confidant. “You may lose a handful of elites on one end of the party, but they’re more than made up for by new voters, donors. The Trump coalition is bigger than Republican Party.”

But while Trump’s present popularity is confounding for Ryan, he could be a historical footnote by year’s end if he doesn’t win the general election.

“This is crucial for both of them, but it’s probably more crucial for Trump,” said one former GOP leadership aide. “Republican House members are going to be able to run their own campaigns in their own districts; whereas it will be very difficult for Donald Trump to win in November without a unified party behind him.”

Ryan and Trump agreed to meet again in the coming weeks, ostensibly to continue to discuss policy issues that may allay Ryan’s concerns about Trump’s conformity to traditional conservative orthodoxies. But given Trump’s hardline positions on immigration and his apparent malleability in other policy areas, which he views as part of an ongoing negotiation, the objective for Ryan will likely be to find common ground with Trump in broad if not nitty-gritty policy details. For instance, it may be enough for Trump and Ryan to agree on the overarching need for lower taxes and a smaller federal government without aligning completely on specific policies.

With cable news networks carrying saturation coverage of Thursday’s meeting—it started Wednesday with a “countdown clock” ticking away the seconds leading up to the summit and continued Thursday with live footage of Trump’s plane leaving Washington—both sides sought to give every appearance of warmth and an eagerness to work together.

Last fall, Trump mocked Jeb Bush and Marco Rubio’s protestations that they remained good friends even amidst a growing rivalry as they competed for the nomination, as “political bullshit.” But now that he’s beaten those former rivals and effectively locked up the GOP nomination, he’s suddenly a character in a similar charade.

Following his meeting with Ryan, Trump met with Republican House and Senate members on the Hill, charming many of the lawmakers he’s spent the last year disparaging. He spent most of the meeting listening to the lawmakers. After finishing up with roughly a dozen senators, he posed for a picture with every senator, smiling and holding a thumbs-up.