Trump's rivals pull their punches.

MIAMI — Donald Trump is on the verge of running away with the Republican nomination and yet none of his rivals, despite their desperation to stop him, are punching up.

On Thursday night as the four remaining candidates took the debate stage here at the University of Miami, Trump opened with a call for the Republican Party to “embrace” his candidacy and the new voters he’s bringing into the fold.

And that’s essentially what his rivals did.

When Trump answered a question on free trade by asserting — in one sentence — that he uses H-1B visas to hire foreign workers for his vast business empire and that such visas are “frankly, very, very bad for workers,” not one of his three remaining opponents hit him for it.

Moments later, Marco Rubio, whose support cratered in the last two weeks after he ratcheted up his attacks and puerile insults toward Trump, drew a more measured, substantive contrast with the front-runner on the issue of reforming entitlement programs, a matter of critical importance in Florida.

After Trump argued that Medicare shouldn’t be cut but propped up with money that can be saved from reducing overseas military expenditures and assistance, Rubio said only that his “numbers don’t add up.”

Ted Cruz, when asked specifically what about Trump’s vision for the country is wrong, responded that the businessman “is right about the problems, but his solutions don’t work.”

The collective reluctance to strongly engage crystalized the state of the GOP nomination fight with five days left until primaries in Ohio and Florida that are must-win contests for native sons John Kasich and Rubio, respectively. As Trump closes in on becoming the GOP’s presumptive nominee, his opponents are ditching the personal insults that only Trump seems capable of executing. No one, in fact, is eager to attack him at all — even on these issues of real resonance in the states casting votes next Tuesday — after so many attempts to do so have backfired so spectacularly. Yes, these candidates are all still fighting to survive. But they're also looking to preserve their own dignity and thinking about what’s next.

“I cannot believe how civil it’s been up here,” Trump said 30 minutes into the debate.

Most recently, Rubio saw his support collapse quickly after derisively mocking Trump in the last two debates and on the stump.

Rubio’s poor showings on Super Tuesday and in the four states that cast votes last Saturday have his campaign on the brink of collapse. He’s endured relentless questions about whether he’ll drop out before Tuesday’s Florida primary, despite his fierce denials. And every recent state poll has shown him trailing Trump.

Coming into Thursday night’s debate, the stakes were highest for Rubio and Kasich, who may not survive past next week if they don’t win their home-state contests.

Things have been looking especially dire for Rubio. And on Wednesday the candidate himself copped to regret about his recent role in the deteriorating tone of the 2016 race. Ahead of the March 1 contests, Rubio assumed Trump’s signature style, launching personal insults that ranged from hitting the Manhattan businessman on everything from his spray tan to the size of his hands.

It didn’t pay off — he’s only won Minnesota and Puerto Rico so far, and has less than a third of Trump’s delegates.

“I’m not telling you he didn’t deserve it, but that’s not who I am and that’s not what I want to be,” Rubio said to Fox News’ Megyn Kelly.

As the debate progressed and Trump stood by his comment Monday that "Islam hates us," refusing to acknowledge that not all Muslims hate the U.S., Rubio again tried to rebuke the front-runner, but in a calm, confident manner.

“Trump says the things people want to say,” Rubio said. “But presidents can’t just say anything they want. It has consequences around the world.

“I'm not interested in being politically correct. I'm just interested in being correct," he continued. "We are going to have to work together with people of the Muslim faith even as Islam faces a serious crisis within it.”

Moments later, Rubio made sure his critique of Trump’s Middle Eastern policy was as polite as it was pointed. “I don’t know if Donald realizes this, but that is not a pro-Israel policy,” he said of Trump’s desire to force both sides to the negotiating table.

Trump, who relishes counter-punching at his opponents, was also remarkably understated in the first hour of the debate, not once referring to his rivals disparagingly as ‘Little Marco’ and ‘Lyin’ Ted.’

He also staked out some new positions, saying he would deploy up to 30,000 American soldiers in the Middle East to defeat the Islamic State, and that he won’t rule out accepting outside contributions in the general election.

Trump made a plea for the GOP to unite behind him and to accept that he’s bringing millions of new people to the Republican Party. “We should seize that opportunity. These are great people. These are fantastic people,” he said.

Cruz entered the debate with an even more forceful argument that 2016 is now a two-man contest, between him and Trump, especially when it comes to the delegate chase. Cruz trails Trump 458 to 359, but he has netted far more than Rubio, who has 151, or Kasich, at 54.

It’s a case that Cruz has pushed for months, but he was armed with fresh evidence after Tuesday’s contests, when he and Trump finished 1-2 in each of the four states, from Hawaii to Mississippi, that voted.

On Thursday, Cruz scored his first endorsement from a Senate colleague, from Mike Lee, who declared in the debate spin room, “I’m sending the signal that it’s time to unite.” Cruz was also endorsed the day before by former rival Carly Fiorina.

In engaging Trump, Cruz also sought to temper his tone as he drew sharp contrasts on foreign policy.

“Frankly, one concern I have with Donald is although his language is quite incendiary, when you look at his substantive policies on Iran, he has said he would not rip up this Iranian nuclear deal,” Cruz said. “The Ayatollah Khomeini wants nuclear weapons to murder us. Another example, dealing with Islamic radical terrorism: Donald said he wants to be neutral between Israel and the Palestinians. As president I will not be neutral.”

If Cruz looks to build on his momentum, Rubio is seeking to stop the bleeding. He hasn’t been awarded any delegates from Tuesday’s contests, and his support fell to single digits in some states.

In the last debate, Cruz and Rubio teamed up to take on Trump, but in the days leading up to this one, Cruz has signaled his desire to knock Rubio out of the race by driving him to a loss in Florida.

Cruz campaigned in Rubio’s Miami backyard on Wednesday as he looked to make inroads with the influential Cuban-American bloc of voters in South Florida that comprise Rubio’s base. Cruz will campaign again in Orlando on Friday.

Rubio had a strong moment that could play big in his home state in the debate’s second hour, forcefully denouncing the Castro regime after Trump said he is open to negotiating a deal with Cuba.

When Trump suggested that Cuba would sue the U.S. for reneging on the Obama administration’s deal, Rubio fired back forcefully: “If they sue us in a court in Miami, they’re going to lose,” referencing the large number of Cuban immigrants in the region.

And he continued on, mocking Trump’s bluster about being able to negotiate “a stronger deal” with Cuba.

“I know what a good deal is,” Rubio said. “Here’s a good deal: Cuba has free elections. Cuba stops putting people in jail for speaking out.”

Moderator Hugh Hewitt also confronted the candidates with the harsh math of the delegate count and the growing chatter about a brokered convention if no one reaches the magic 1,237 number.

Kasich cautioned “let’s not get ahead of ourselves,” before optimistically predicting that a contested convention could actually have a healing effect on the party.

Cruz warned against the “fevered dreams” of a brokered convention, but had a more ominous take. “I think that would be an absolute disaster, and we need to respect the will of the voters,” the Texas senator said.

As for Trump, he said he’s not worried. “First of all, I think I'm going to have the delegates, OK? I think. Let's see what happens. Let's see what happens,” he said, adding that there shouldn’t be a focus on some artificial number. “I think that whoever gets the most delegates should win. That's what I think.”