Obama's Gitmo plan leaves everyone unhappy.

Virtually no one is impressed with President Barack Obama’s latest plan to close Guantanamo Bay — though its lack of specifics might be a relief to the Democrats running to replace him.

The White House largely played it safe politically in the nine-page plan released Tuesday. Legal observers note the White House wouldn’t truly “close” the prison, but rather move people who may need to be detained indefinitely into the United States — to the chagrin of human rights groups. On Capitol Hill, Republican supporters decried the lack of details about where the U.S. might move these detainees and just how much it would cost. The administration struggled on Tuesday to explain why it had ignored Congress’s demand for specifics even as White House officials railed against Republicans for refusing to give the president a fair hearing.

Even people who unequivocally endorsed the plan sounded equivocal: Former Rep. Jane Harman called it “the least bad option under the circumstances.”

Harman, now director of the Wilson International Center for Scholars, urged Obama last year not to close the prison until there was a way to house detainees who can’t be tried under any circumstances because evidence against them was gathered through torture, but who are considered too dangerous to release. (About 46 detainees fall under that category.) She and Jack Goldsmith, a Bush-era Justice official, outlined a plan to periodically review how dangerous detainees are, holding out the possibility of release if they’re deemed safe. Obama adopted that approach in the plan released Tuesday.

“Closing Gitmo is an imperative,” Harman said. “It’s been a black eye on our foreign policy.”

While civil rights groups like the American Civil Liberties Union and the National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers praised Obama’s latest attempt to shutter the facility and embraced his argument that federal courts are the best venue for trying terrorists, they said he didn’t go far enough on the human rights front.

“The Guantánamo military commissions are an abject failure,” said ACLU executive Director Anthony Romero in a statement. “They have never worked, are not working, and will never work, even with President Obama’s well-intentioned reforms. Additionally, the president’s continuing embrace of indefinite detention without charge or trial will tarnish his legacy.”

In Congress, which acted quickly in Obama’s first year to bar him from moving Gitmo detainees onto U.S. soil and has continued to block his efforts, the plan was a nonstarter.

“It is against the law — and it will stay against the law — to transfer terrorist detainees to American soil,” said House Speaker Paul Ryan in a statement. “We will not jeopardize our national security over a campaign promise.”

Republicans who agree that the prison should be closed were irritated about the lack of detail, with Sen. John McCain calling it a “Chinese menu.”

The support of McCain, who chairs the Senate Armed Services Committee, is crucial for the plan to have any shot, and while he said he’d hold a hearing, it’s unlikely to win his support without naming a site.

“It’s been seven-and-a-half years,” McCain said, asked about the vagueness in an interview. “Why should I be surprised?”

The administration said it was doing its best to follow the rules Congress set. White House and Pentagon spokesmen said the broad ban on spending to bring Guantanamo detainees to the U.S. in the latest defense authorization prevented the Defense Department from researching specific sites.

“The administration is constrained by law from undertaking design or detailed planning for a U.S.-based facility,” White House press secretary Josh Earnest said Tuesday. Cost estimates, he added, were “based on a prototype detention facility.”

Last year, officials studied potential sites at military bases in Kansas and South Carolina last year and a federal “supermax” prison in Colorado, and a former defense official said there have been at least informal discussions at the Pentagon about the feasibility of different location.

Asked why the administration didn’t follow Congress’s demand, in the same defense bill, that the administration’s report include specific sites and costs, Earnest responded, “I think you have highlighted yet another example of congressional dysfunction that they’ve written a law that includes varying guidance.”

A spokeswoman for the House Armed Services Committee emailed reporters with the relevant text of the National Defense Authorization Act, arguing, “As you can see, the text of the law they cite (Section 1032, Subtitle D) says nothing of the kind.”

The White House, however, did meet the deadline Congress imposed in the NDAA. It falls just four days before South Carolina’s Democratic presidential primary.

Since Charleston’s Navy base has long been considered a top contender, there was no risk that Hillary Clinton and Sen. Bernie Sanders would have to choose weigh the political risks of telling potential voters that they’d send hardened terrorists to their backyard before backing the president’s plan.

Clinton weighed in with her support on Tuesday evening, hours after Sanders said he was “encouraged” by the plan — a modest boost for Obama since 2009, when Sanders joined 89 other senators to reject the president’s request to close the prison until he gave more specifics.

Hill Democrats, however, were generally vague. Sen. Jack Reed (D-R.I.), said after a lunch on Tuesday that he hadn’t gotten a chance to read the president's plan, but called it a “starting point for our deliberations.”
