Are Democrats crippling Obamacare?

Obamacare has survived a pair of Supreme Court battles and half a decade of Republican repeal efforts.

But as the Obama administration enters its final year, the Affordable Care Act is facing formidable hurdles that are largely of Democrats' making.

By voting to delay the so-called Cadillac tax as part of a year-end budget deal, Democrats knocked out an economic pillar critical to achieving one of the act's central goals — tamping down U.S. health care spending. President Barack Obama and the Democrats pursued that goal at great political cost. But if it falls by the wayside, Obama may have his own party to blame for his diminished legacy.

The White House’s defeat on that, as well as several other Obamacare taxes, comes as a series of problems have piled up since coverage expansion kicked in two years ago, from collapsing co-op health plans to double-digit premium increases. No single one of them is likely to prove fatal, but together they have significantly weakened the law that Obama spent much of his presidency fighting for.

By joining with Republicans to delay the Cadillac tax, in particular, the president’s party chose the short-term demands of organized labor — a key ground-game player going into an election year — over the long-term goals of Obamacare. The party offered fresh ammunition to Republicans who say the law is a money pit. And it showed a lack of political will to make Americans change their habits on health care spending.

“Is it the death knell? No. But it is harmful,” said Peter Orszag, Obama’s Office of Management and Budget director during the drafting of the law.

The Cadillac tax was designed in part to help pay for Obamacare. But its main goal was to curb generous insurance policies that make health care virtually free to consumers, thereby encouraging its overuse and driving up spending.

While health care spending has increased at historically low levels since passage of the health care law in 2010, there's no consensus on whether that slowdown is primarily attributable to the Great Recession or to Obamacare. Last year, health care spending shot back up and grew by 5.3 percent, easily surpassing overall inflation. If it doesn't slow down, forecasters say health spending will cripple the U.S. economy within decades.

The White House emphasizes the health care law's successes. More than 17 million people have acquired coverage under Obamacare, and the uninsured rate is the lowest ever recorded. Competition in the fledgling Obamacare marketplaces is robust. And HealthCare.gov, after a disastrous rollout, has become a reliable vehicle for Obamacare customers to shop for coverage. More broadly, Obamacare’s supporters argue that multiple provisions of the law, unaffected by the Cadillac tax, are fundamentally changing the economics of health care by paying doctors for quality, not quantity, of care.

The 2016 enrollment season is off to a good start, with more than 8 million signed up, and may well exceed admittedly modest expectations.

Obama touted the law’s accomplishments and the signup surge before he left for his Hawaii vacation. “The more who sign up, the stronger the system becomes. And that's good news for every American who no longer has to worry about being just one illness or accident away from financial hardship,” he said.

Zeke Emanuel, an oncologist who advised Obama on the health care overhaul, said Obamacare so far has been a success “by any stretch of any metric — especially access, especially cost control, to some degree quality, the solvency of the Medicare trust fund.”

Emanuel acknowledged, however, “As they say in the stock brochures, past performance is no indication of future performance.”

Indeed, the recent travails of the health care law were sizable even before the budget deal reached last week knocked out funding.

In October, the Obama administration announced it could pay only a fraction of the funds that were supposed to protect insurers competing in the exchanges from big losses — not quite 13 cents on the dollar. Republicans had blocked fuller payments. That shortfall hastened the demise of half the nonprofit co-op plans established with Obamacare loan dollars and infuriated other insurers, which are crucial to the law’s success. One of them, UnitedHealth Group, has threatened to leave the exchanges.

While UnitedHealth is only a minor player in most states, other big insurers are raising alarms about how sick and expensive their exchange customers are. Just this week, the trade group for the Blue Cross Blue Shield plans, which dominate many state exchanges, spelled out its concerns as it commented on proposed market regulations. “The current risk pool is out of balance," the group wrote. "A course correction is needed now or this unsustainable trend will only get worse in the future.“

Big price hikes have also been a headache for Obamacare supporters. Premiums for many plans rose by double digits for 2016, and bigger deductibles are translating into higher out-of-pocket costs.

Unions have been plotting to junk the Cadillac tax ever since it was proposed. It's the persistent pull of Obama's "if you like your plan, you can keep it" promise: Many of them negotiated generous employer-sponsored plans in place of increased wages, and they want to keep them. So they hate the tax because it would imperil those benefits — and that’s the whole point of it.

Rather than pay a 40 percent excise tax on expensive policies above a certain dollar amount, employers will likely cut back, the reasoning goes. Workers will have to pay more for their own health care, so they’ll comparison shop and think twice before agreeing to extensive tests and procedures that they might not actually need. The whole system will have to respond by focusing on quality.

That threatened to create a lot of unhappy middle-class families over the next few years as the tax hit their benefits, too, thanks to Obamacare and the Democrats.

“Almost everybody but health care economists was opposed to the thing,” said former Sen. Evan Bayh, a moderate Indiana Democrat who declined to run for reelection after voting for Obamacare. “On Capitol Hill, that’s a pretty hard thing to withstand.”

It’s not just Democrats in Congress: Hillary Clinton came out against the Cadillac tax in September. It was just days before she won the endorsement of the National Education Association, a coup over her main rival, Sen. Bernie Sanders, who has long opposed the tax.

Congress only voted for a two-year delay — from 2018 to 2020. But few on either side of the debate think the Cadillac tax will ever go into effect, with such a powerful bipartisan precedent for opposing it.

“The unions and the trial lawyers have the kind of stranglehold on the Democrats that the NRA and the Chamber of Commerce have on the Republicans,” said Steven Brill, author of “America’s Bitter Pill,” a history of the Obamacare debate.

Administration officials acknowledge privately that they weren’t surprised by the Cadillac tax’s delay, given the broad and longstanding opposition. But they remain hopeful that the two-year lapse and next round of congressional debate will give the provision a privilege that so many other parts of Obamacare have been denied: a chance to actually be refined. The original tax was a blunt instrument, and the White House is open to modifying it to make it more politically sustainable.

For now, the administration waves off the delay as having “minimal” impact. As White House press secretary Josh Earnest explained, three taxes were postponed in the budget deal, depriving the government of $35 billion, “which sounds like a lot of money. But when you consider that during that time period — essentially over the next four years, between 2015 and 2019 — the Affordable Care Act is slated to cost $203 billion less than was originally projected, and that means that the net outcome here continues to be a health care policy that saves the government money.”

The Congressional Budget Office hasn’t yet endorsed that perspective. Republicans never bought the idea that a trillion-dollar health care law could possibly save money. And part of the reason Obamacare has come in under budget: Not all the states took federal funds to expand Medicaid, and not as many people signed up on the Obamacare exchanges as expected, meaning the feds have to shell out less in subsidies.

Brill has argued that the law was crippled from the outset because of the political tradeoffs the drafters had to make to drugmakers, hospitals and other big health care players from coming out against it. As a result, there's still “a very powerful industry that has the freedom to charge whatever.”

Others say this is just a rough patch. Supporters of the law hope this is just a transition period as insurers figure out the right types of policies for the exchanges and wait for more young, healthy people to sign up.

For big-picture backers like Emanuel, the question isn’t so much whether the HealthCare.gov marketplaces will survive. It’s whether, 30 years from now, the U.S. will still use and pay for health care the same way.

“I’m worried that we will slip back into the usual mode, and the usual mode is not a good mode,” Emanuel said. His final assessment: “It’s not quite optimistic,” he said. “We’re hopeful.”
