The steep cost of Cruz's 99-county Iowa strategy.

OSCEOLA, Iowa — In the final countdown to the Iowa caucuses, Ted Cruz is racing to visit all 99 of the state’s counties. But the pursuit is diverting him far from the state’s voter-rich population centers, major media hubs, and socially conservative northwest region — detours that could prove costly.

Cruz is the only top-tier contender here to have pledged to visit every Iowa county and he has long used that fact to bludgeon his chief rivals, Donald Trump and Marco Rubio, for not campaigning “the Iowa way.” But Cruz entered the final 10-day sprint to caucuses with nearly two-dozen counties still left to visit — many of them remote, underpopulated and strategically insignificant.

“You don’t want to be squeezing in 10 to 15 counties in the last week of the caucus just for the sake of putting a pin on the map. You want to be going where your campaign has identified the largest swath of persuadable voters,” said Jeff Patch, an Iowa Republican operative unaligned in 2016. “In that sense, the Cruz campaign may be somewhat limiting themselves.”

Take Tuesday’s schedule.

Cruz began his day in an unheated barn in Osceola, in Clarke County, where only 367 Republicans caucused four years ago. Six stops later, mostly across rural southeastern Iowa, Cruz’s day ended in Keosauqua, a town of less than 1,000 that had even some caucus veterans reaching for a map. Only 360 Republicans caucused in Keosauqua’s county, Van Buren, in 2012.

“While it’s great to brag about, and its kind of of catchy to say you’re going to go to all 99 counties, it may not be the most effective use of your campaign time,” said Brett O’Donnell, chief strategist for Michele Bachmann’s campaign four years ago, when she embarked on a late 99-county tour.

“Was that the best use of our time? In retrospect, I don’t think it was,” O’Donnell said. “We probably should have been going to the strategic places where the votes were.”

One region where Cruz is hardly campaigning the final week is northwestern Iowa, which has been expected to be a Cruz stronghold. It is the state’s social conservative epicenter and home to Rep. Steve King, one of Cruz’s most prominent Iowa endorsers.

Cruz spokeswoman Catherine Frazier said the 99-county pledge was not constraining.

“I completely disagree with the assertion that there is any disadvantage,” she said. “We feel good about the areas we’re going to and the amount of time we’re able to spend in all areas of the state.” She noted a planned Cruz rally on Saturday in Sioux City with King in his district, one of several weekend rallies in more densely populated areas.

Cruz himself said Tuesday that “the only way to win the state of Iowa is to go and ask, one on one, for the support of the grassroots.” Asked which Iowa county was his favorite, he demurred: “Whichever one I’m in at the moment.”

Still, the fact that the race “is a dead heat right now,” as Cruz said on Glenn Beck’s radio program on Monday, only magnifies the importance of every tactical decision. If Cruz loses narrowly in Iowa, there will likely be much second-guessing about his schedule, including his late push in sparse Iowa counties and 13-straight-day absence from the state in mid-January.

While old Iowa political hands say there is a benefit from media attention when pursuing the 99-county goal — known here as “the full Grassley” after 82-year Iowa Sen. Chuck Grassley, who's done it annually for 36 years — they say it would have made more strategic sense to visit far flung counties earlier in the cycle, when a candidate’s time is less crunched.

“This is a very critical week where every minute needs to be used effectively,” said GOP strategist Keith Nahigian, a veteran of multiple presidential campaigns, including serving as Bachmann’s 2012 campaign manager. “He probably should have completed that promise before the last week.”

"If I were managing the campaign, would I wish that I had scheduled things so that this final week, he was in the big urban areas? Absolutely,” Eric Woolson, an Iowa Republican strategist and former adviser to Scott Walker, said of Cruz.

In fact, Cruz did hope to have finished more of his 99-county tour earlier. His six-day, 28-stop Iowa bus tour at the beginning of January was originally scheduled to have a half-dozen more stops, but Cruz’s top brass scrapped some events, wary of overextending their candidate.

The result: after Thursday’s final pre-Iowa debate, Cruz must travel nearly three hours from Des Moines to northern Iowa for three stops, including in Ringsted, a hamlet with a population under 500, and Fenton, home to less than 300.

“Oh gosh, those are some very small towns,” Woolson said. They also lie in a media market dead zone — far away from either Sioux City or Mason City. “That’s a tough area.”

The good news for Cruz, Woolson said, is that as the Iowa co-front-runner, he’s almost guaranteed to attract a media horde. “He'll still get coverage,” he said. “You guys will cover him everywhere he goes.”

That adds its own pressure. Avoiding images of empty or sparse events can strain a campaign’s infrastructure, especially in tiny towns. Cruz’s team executed this flawlessly on his earlier January bus tour — packing practically every space where he appeared, often drawing crowds of hundreds in towns of a few thousand.

“It’s taxing on campaign resources,” O’Donnell said. “Big time.” For instance, Cruz’s Iowa director, Bryan English, is spending much of his time on the Cruz bus this month, not manning the operation from headquarters.

Grant Young, another unaligned Iowa Republican strategist, said there are advantages for a front-runner like Cruz to showing up in remote areas. “The leading candidate shows up to a small town like that? It’s a good day for a bank robber or anybody wanting to steal something because everybody in town will show up,” Young said. “People are going to talk about that for the rest of the week.”

At the barn in Osceola, Cruz drew one of his smaller crowds of the month— but still a crush of correspondents and cameras. One local woman, Karen Robison, pulled Rep. King aside after the event.

“I’m so glad you don’t forget Osceola,” she told him. It makes a difference, she said in an interview afterward, that Cruz and his campaign “don’t forget us little people of Iowa. We’re country folks out here.”

Patch, a former Iowa Republican Party communications director, said the problem for Cruz is that other campaigns are reaching more caucus-goers in the closing days.

“The Rubio people have made a conscious decision to focus on medium cities and larger metropolitan areas to try to reach as many voters as possible in the most efficient way,” Patch said. “I think you get more bang for your buck campaigning in the way Rubio has.”

Cruz hopes to get one last media splash from his 99-county pursuit. He is currently on pace to complete it on Monday afternoon, in Greene County, only hours before the caucuses begin.