Senate candidates stake out a range of positions on education issues.

TALLAHASSEE — If he were elected to the U.S. Senate, Lt. Gov. Carlos Lopez-Cantera would support doling out federal higher education funding based on performance metrics.

Rep. Ron DeSantis would advocate allowing federal dollars that support low-income schools to follow students to any schools their families choose, including private or religious ones.

Todd Wilcox, a combat veteran and former CIA officer, wants more opportunities for students to fulfill public-sector service obligations after college in exchange for tuition assistance.

David Jolly hopes to work across the aisle to boost investment in early childhood education and need-based financial aid for college.

Real estate developer Carlos Beruff would push to abolish the U.S. Department of Education and give states broad freedom to spend federal education dollars how they see fit.

Rep. Patrick Murphy wants more funding for teacher pay and classroom supplies. His Democratic opponent, Rep. Alan Grayson, would support later school start times and more free meals for students.

Seven candidates — including the state’s No. 2 elected official, four congressmen and two businessmen seeking to paint themselves as political outsiders — are vying to replace Sen. Marco Rubio in Washington next year. The primary will take place on Aug. 30.

So far, the race has focused more on politics than policy. In a series of interviews with POLITICO Florida, the candidates outlined their priorities and positions on controversial education issues, from the role of the federal government in education to how to address the rising costs of college. Here’s where they stand:

Federal role in education policy.

All five of the Republican candidates would like to shrink the federal education department and limit its influence over policymaking, although some wouldn’t get rid of it entirely.

The GOP contenders agree that decisions around standards, curriculum and testing should be left to states or local school districts. They denounced the Obama administration’s promotion of the Common Core standards through competitive grants and waivers from the requirements of No Child Left Behind, which has now been rewritten.

In 2009, when President Barack Obama offered states billions of dollars for education through his signature Race To The Top competitive grant program, “states were hemorrhaging money. They needed it,” DeSantis said. “And he conditioned that funding on adopting things like Common Core standards. Having the policy directed out of Washington is not the way this stuff should work. These decisions should be made locally or at the state level."

Federal mandates are a burden that distract from teaching and learning in schools, said Wilcox, an Orlando Republican who founded lucrative defense and transportation companies after serving in the Army and the CIA.

“There is more time and effort and money spent on compliance than there is on teaching our kids,” he said. “Why do we need a federal Department of Education? Curriculum should be driven at the local level anyway.”

Wilcox and Beruff, a Sarasota Republican, argued that the department is not needed to oversee schools’ compliance with anti-discrimination and civil rights laws. State departments of education can do that, they said.

To believe the federal government must ensure states are properly educating students, “you have to take a really cynical view of the 50 states in this country … and I am not that cynical,” he said. “If children are being left behind at the state level, and the states are ignoring that, we really have a problem in this country. I don’t think you need the federal government to tell the states that the children aren’t being taken care of.”

If states fail in ensuring students’ protections, the U.S. Department of Justice can step in, Wilcox said.

“That’s probably still something that the federal government should do,” he said. “I’m not an advocate of disbanding the Department of Justice, but it’s never been the role of the Department of Education.”

Republicans Jolly of Indian Shores and DeSantis of Ponte Vedra Beach are against abolishing the department.

Jolly, who was elected to Congress in 2014, doesn’t see the department’s role in enforcing anti-discrimination laws as antiquated.

“There are communities around the country that, for economic reasons as well as the history of civil rights, require some level of federal involvement,” he said, adding the involvement should be “minimal.”

Closing the department would “[send] the wrong message in terms of our national priorities,” he added.

Even if the department no longer existed, some of its functions would be performed by other federal agencies or offices, said DeSantis, who was elected to the U.S. House in 2012. The focus should be on the extent of the federal government’s influence over education rather than how the bureaucracy is organized, he said.

Federal education funding.

The Republican candidates would also seek to limit or eliminate the federal government’s role in directing how education dollars are spent.

Several said they would rather federal officials dole out funding for public schools in “block grants” to states, letting them determine spending priorities.

Lopez-Cantera, a Republican and former state legislator who became lieutenant governor in 2014, said the block grants should be based on population and come with accountability measures to prevent waste.

“Then let the states decide,” he said. “That’s what the founding fathers intended, that most decisions be made at the state level, not at the federal level.”

Jolly said he would be cautious in restructuring federal education spending because he’d worry about creating further inefficiencies.

He cited the Head Start program, the federally funded pre-school delivered by schools and community-based organizations. If the federal government gave money for Head Start to states and then states doled it out to the organizations that deliver the program, states unnecessarily would become middle men, Jolly said.

“That would take more money away from the classroom,” he said. “Let’s not create more inefficiencies and actually more cost by creating another administrative layer.”

Grayson, an Orlando Democrat who was first elected to Congress in 2008, criticized his GOP opponents for their animosity toward the department, which he argued seeks to restore equity where it is distorted by state and local funding models.

“Because we fund K-12 education in this country almost exclusively through local property taxes, we start with a system with enormous disparities, and that in itself creates a federal role,” Grayson said.

If states received block grants, they might neglect some of the areas where the federal government has focused its resources, like capital improvements and special education, he said.

“For all I know, [states] would use the money to buy uniforms for the school band,” Grayson said.

Murphy, a Jupiter Democrat who has been endorsed by both the national teachers unions and the Florida Education Association, has made increasing federal funding to public schools his chief education priority.

He said he has seen schools in Florida that reminded him of “a third-world country,” where teachers didn’t have supplies and students had to share old textbooks.

“It will be a priority in the Senate to fully fund public education, make sure that the teachers not only have the resources and supplies they need but that they’re getting paid what they deserve,” he said.

He would pay for the increases through “tax reform,” which he described as “making sure that companies and individuals are paying their fair share.”

School choice and vouchers.

Two primary education programs funded by the federal government are Title I, which supports schools that serve low-income students, and Head Start, which serves children from birth through age 5.

DeSantis wants to see both programs administered like a voucher, where families are able to access the dollars and direct them toward whichever educational programs they want, including ones offered by private schools.

“Let the dollars follow the family to take to any institution that works for them,” DeSantis said about Title I.

As for how his plan would impact poor public schools’ ability to serve needy students, he said: “It would spark a competition for the students, and I think it would spur innovation. When you have a captive audience, there is less incentive to innovate than when people can vote with their feet.”

Other Republican candidates said they support charter schools and vouchers or tax-credit scholarship programs, but they wouldn’t advocate for them on the federal level, because those decisions should be left to states, they said.

“It’s a slippery slope where I say I want the federal government to be involved less but at the same time I want to promote charter schools and school choice,” Lopez-Cantera said.

Murphy, who was elected to the House in 2012, argued his fight to increase funding for public schools is especially relevant “in states where they’re stealing money from the public school system to give it to other outlets.”

Standards and testing.

Opposition to the Common Core standards has united Republicans and Democrats nationwide in recent years. But the Senate candidates’ positions on the issues of standards and testing are nuanced and likely influenced by their political loyalties, given that former governor Jeb Bush and Gov. Rick Scott have both supported implementation of the Common Core or similar standards.

The Common Core standards outline which math and English skills students should be able to demonstrate at each grade level and aim to boost students’ proficiency in critical thinking and problem solving. Like many other states, Florida adopted the Common Core but later revised and renamed the standards, largely in response to their unpopularity among conservatives and liberals alike.

On his campaign website, Lopez-Cantera promises to “end” the Common Core. He told POLITICO Florida the state’s own standards are not perfect but “getting better and better."

“No government is ever going to get it perfect,” Lopez-Cantera said when asked about the Florida Standards, which were developed under the Scott administration. “The job of policymakers is to continue seeking perfection and making it better and constantly reassessing to ensure that the students and the parents are getting the most out of the education system.”

Beruff, a Scott ally, called Florida’s standards “strong.”

“It started with Gov. Bush, who elevated the standards and the requirements. It’s been continued, obviously, by Gov. Scott aggressively,” Beruff said.

He’s also supportive of the state’s testing program.

“If you don’t test, how are you going to measure the results?” he said.

Wilcox said he was “a big advocate” of the principle of common standards, which he argued help ease educational disruptions for students who transfer often across state lines, like those in military families.

But the Common Core was rolled out badly, he said.

“Common Core is broken. It’s broken, not because the Common Core is bad, but because the implementation has failed us,” Wilcox said. “Bureaucracy and the federal government have screwed it up.”

Grayson said he opposes the Common Core because the standards don’t recognize the uniqueness of each student.

Most of the candidates said they support parents’ right to boycott state exams. Opposition to the Common Core as well as the use of test scores in teacher evaluations and other accountability measures has fueled an opt-out movement in Florida and nationally.

The “opt out” movement is about “people telling leaders, 'this is not what we want,'” Wilcox said. “What we’re seeing is a revolt of parents who are saying, ‘we are not going to do this.’ I am not in favor of any kind of legislation that would abolish that choice — that’s for sure.”

Although the Scott administration doesn’t recognize or track opt-out rates and has maintained that state testing is required by law, Lopez-Cantera said about the movement, “I support parents making the best decisions for their kids’ education.”

Higher education affordability.

The two Democratic candidates, for whom this race has been particularly nasty, sparred on the issue of how to address rising college costs and student loan debt.

Grayson has introduced Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders’ College for All Act in the House and would continue his push for it in the Senate, he said. The bill would make public college tuition-free, among other provisions. Grayson has endorsed Sanders in the Democratic presidential primary.

Murphy, though, said he’s with former secretary of state Hillary Clinton, who he’s supporting in the primary. Clinton’s plan, which she has promoted as part of her presidential platform, would calculate tuition at public colleges based on family income.

Grayson said Murphy’s support of Clinton’s idea is “really an amorphous position to have.

“What we do here is, we legislate. We introduce bills. We debate them. We vote on them. That’s what we do,” Grayson said. “We don’t introduce or debate platforms or notions.”

Murphy’s spokeswoman Galia Slayen said Murphy is “proud” to support Clinton’s plan.

“Making college debt free is a progressive value that Democratic candidates in this race share, and while Patrick is focused on finding solutions to make college more affordable and accessible, Alan Grayson is instead attacking our party's likely nominee for the presidency,” she said.

(Grayson's spokeswoman challenged the assertion that Grayson had ever "attacked" Clinton, and said he "maintains that she will be a very competent president." Pressed for specifics, Murphy's campaign could not immediately provide an example of an attack.)

The GOP candidates in the race also offered ideas for boosting college affordability.

Jolly said he has worked with Republicans and Democrats on legislation that would allow students to renegotiate their student loan debt under the jurisdiction of a federal bankruptcy judge. He also said he supports increasing the threshold for Pell grants and accelerating disbursement of the funds.

DeSantis said he has supported legislation that would target the power of regional accreditation bodies, which he called “a cartel for higher education.” He would advocate for the creation of state-level accreditation bodies that could sign off on non-traditional career and technical education programs like apprenticeships and allow students access to federal aid to participate in them.

Wilcox, whose education at the University of Tampa was paid for by the military because he participated in the Reserve Officers’ Training Corps (ROTC) program, said he’d like to see more students get opportunities like the one he had.

He said a similar model could work for prospective doctors. Prospective physicians could agree to work in the public sector for a certain period of time after graduation and get government tuition assistance. Law enforcement officers, forensic scientists and engineers might also benefit from such programs, he said.

“It would inspire a sense of service to the nation,” Wilcox said.
