Poll: Trump and Clinton hold narrow leads in Pennsylvania.

Three weeks ahead of the Pennsylvania primary, Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton are holding on to single-digit leads among likely voters in their state's primaries, according to the results of the latest Quinnipiac University poll released Wednesday.

Trump earned the support of nearly four in 10 likely voters — 39 percent — while Texas Sen. Ted Cruz earned 30 percent.

The poll's results are disappointing news for Ohio Gov. John Kasich, who grew up outside of Pittsburgh and has spent significant time campaigning in Pennsylvania but is in third place with 24 percent.

While only 7 percent said they are undecided, 27 percent of those who named a candidate said they could be persuaded to change their mind before April 26, when voters in Pennsylvania head to the polls, along with those in Connecticut, Delaware, Maryland and Rhode Island.

Among Trump voters, 74 percent said they are set on voting for the real estate mogul, while 22 percent said they might change their mind. For Cruz backers, support is roughly as strong, at 73 percent to 25 percent. Among Kasich supporters, however, 61 percent said they have their minds made up compared to nearly four in 10 — 38 percent — who said they could change their mind.

While Cruz holds commanding double-digit leads among those identifying with the tea party, white, born-again evangelical Christians and those describing themselves as very conservative, Trump leads by 21 points among those describing themselves as somewhat conservative and by 10 points over Kasich among moderates and liberals.

On the Democratic side of the ballot, Clinton leads Bernie Sanders 50 percent to 44 percent, with subsets of voters largely split along the usual demographic lines of age and gender, as well as political ideology.

Nearly eight in 10 Democratic voters overall said they have made up their mind on whom they will support on April 26, with similar levels of certainty among both Clinton and Sanders backers.

Kasich, despite trailing both Trump and Cruz among Republican primary voters, is the only Republican candidate who topped both Clinton and Sanders in hypothetical matchups. Against Clinton, the Ohio governor earned 51 percent to her 35 percent, while against Sanders, he prevailed 46 percent to 40 percent.

Quinnipiac conducted the poll via landlines and cellphones from March 30-April 4, surveying 1,737 registered voters in the state with an overall margin of error of plus or minus 2.4 percentage points. Among the 578 likely Republican primary voters surveyed, the margin of error is plus or minus 4.1 percentage points, while among the 514 likely Democratic primary voters surveyed, the margin of error is plus or minus 4.3 percentage points.