A petite powerhouse - with an undying devotion to her 'Ronnie.'

That adoring gaze.

If we remember nothing else about Nancy Reagan, who died Sunday at age 94, it will be that image of a petite woman with the huge eyes, fixed like a loving laser on Ronald Reagan -- her "Ronnie" -- whenever they were in the same room. And they were rarely apart.

Of course, it won't be the only thing we remember. She brought Old Hollywood glamour to the White House -- and defended it despite criticism. She introduced the nation to her New Plutocrat pals, their social life and their spending. She helped make Oscar de la Renta a star and lit up rooms with her fire-engine red frocks.

She was a canny bureaucratic infighter when she needed to be: Former Reagan chief of staff Don Regan, who died in 2003, knew all about that, to his chagrin: He was fired, in part after clashing with Nancy.

She was a charmer when she needed to be: Too bad there's no video of her hugely successful turn singing Secondhand Clothes at the Gridiron following a mini-scandal over her perceived obsession with couture fashion.

But when it all comes down to it, Nancy Reagan will be remembered for her absolute devotion to her husband -- elevating him, polishing his legacy, protecting him from any threats, even to the point of consulting an astrologer to help arrange his schedule. (That last embarrassing factoid comes courtesy of Dan Regan's scathing revenge memoir of his Reagan years.)

"That's not to say that other first ladies weren't devoted to their husbands, but few can match Nancy Reagan," says Myra Gutin, a first lady historian and professor of communications at Rider University in Lawrenceville, N.J.

The paradox of Nancy, says Carl Anthony, historian at the National First Ladies Library, is that she was "one of the most powerful first ladies in the post-World War II era," not for her policy influence (think Eleanor Roosevelt and Hillary Clinton) but for her "personal influence closely monitoring and at times managing access to the president's decision-making process (think Edith Wilson)."

Nancy's "single most defining public role was 'helping my husband,'" Anthony says, a job especially important for a president who hated personal conflicts and confrontations that inevitably come to the Oval Office.

Certainly Ronald Reagan had no doubts about his most valuable asset: After all, who helped make him a Republican (he had been a Democrat) and a conservative? Who helped make him governor of California? And who helped make him POTUS?

It was always Nancy Davis Reagan, the Hollywood starlet-turned-political wife-turned first lady of the United States, 1981-1989.

"If Nancy Davis had met Ronald Reagan earlier in his movie career, he would have gotten an Oscar -- she would have insisted on it," says Gutin.

Anthony describes her as "the single greatest protective force around Ronald Reagan, not only as he rose to the presidency, but throughout his presidency."

Beloved by her husband, Nancy was not always so loved by his staff or the public, especially in the early years of his presidency.

"Some people referred to her as 'the personnel director' because she always had his back in keeping tabs on how people were serving her husband," Gutin says. "If she didn't think they were doing well, she was not quiet about it at all, to him or to others."

Naturally, this didn't set well with some. She didn't really care about the criticism but she really cared if her low approval ratings (at one point as low as 19%, Gutin says) hurt her husband.

So when their first year in office was marred by controversies over her expensive tastes, the harrumphing in the press and polls was loud.

"Something had to be done," Gutin says.

Thus, the public-relations campaign to improve her image. Thus, her star turn at the Gridiron (an ancient and exclusive clan of media pooh-bahs who annually perform skits and sing songs poking fun at politicos), when she transformed from "Queen Nancy" to "Bag Lady" overnight.

She also provided Reagan with feedback on pending decisions or on his public remarks or speeches, Anthony says, and she felt free to contradict his conclusions or challenge his thinking.

"As a result, she developed into a strong force in her own right," Anthony says. "Even the political agenda of Reagan's base supporters came second to the personal well-being of her husband and the reputation of his legacy."