Candidates fan out in Iowa as caucuses near; 
Races tighten on both sides, so politicos push planks, challenge polling.

One week before Iowa opens the presidential nomination process, Democratic and Republican candidates began making their final pitches Monday via the Internet, the airwaves, personal appearances and televised town halls.

During a town hall event broadcast by CNN, Democrats Hillary Clinton, Bernie Sanders, and Martin O'Malley offered Iowa voters different approaches to the presidency.

"I've been on the front lines of change and progress," said Clinton, the former secretary of State, U.S. senator, and first lady.

Sanders, the senator from Vermont, said the nation's problems of income inequality and big campaign money are so daunting that "we have got to go beyond establishment politics and establishment economics."

O'Malley, the former governor of Maryland and former mayor of Baltimore, stressed his executive experience and climate change plan.

"I know it's a tough fight, but I've always been drawn to a tough fight," he said.

Among Republicans, Donald Trump and Ted Cruz maintained their battle as they sit atop most polls ahead of Monday's  GOP caucuses.

In an interview with CNN, Trump continued to question Cruz's temperament, saying the Texas senator could not "make deals" as president because so many  lawmakers dislike him.

"We can't have a guy who stands in the middle of the Senate floor and every other senator thinks he's a whack job, right?" said the New York businessman, who campaigned Monday in New Hampshire.

Cruz, who says Trump is attacking him because the polls have tightened, said GOP voters should go with him because he has the more conservative record on issues, such as health care and opposition to abortion.

"As conservatives continue to unite, we will win," Cruz told reporters in Manchester, Iowa.

Cruz also picked up an endorsement from a onetime Republican opponent, former Texas governor Rick Perry.

In a video put out by the Cruz campaign, Perry said his fellow Texan is ready to "take on the Washington cartel," secure the border, strengthen the military, and improve health care for veterans.

"Ted is the leader that we need to reignite the promise of America," Perry said.

Marco Rubio, who is third in many Iowa Republican polls, stressed defense issues and Supreme Court appointments during an appearance with Sen. Joni Ernst, R-Iowa.

The Florida senator told reporters he feels good about his campaign in Iowa, and "we'll see what it translates to a week from tonight."

Other Republicans  prepared for the final days of the Iowa campaign, including a debate Thursday in Des Moines. Retired neurosurgeon Ben Carson proposed the creation of a  federal agency to coordinate cyber security efforts, while Jeb Bush in a Medium post said he would put more conservative judges on the federal bench.

Sen. Rand Paul, R-Ky., told Fox News that polls could be "way off," and have been unreliable in past races.