Michelle Obama made America pay attention.

LETTERS.

Apolitically and in all fairness, Michelle Obama deserves kudos for her sterling speech at the Democratic National Convention. The first lady spoke from the bottom of her heart by embracing of core American and humanitarian values most of us espouse so dearly -- especially the need to foster good upbringing and development of our children as responsible citizens.

Her most striking appeal was worded beautifully when she said, "Make no mistake about it, this November, when we get to the polls, that is what we are deciding. Not Democrat or Republican, not left or right. In this election, and every election, it is about who will have the power to shape our children for the next four or eight years of their lives."

This speech can be summed up in the very words of Abraham Lincoln when delivering his second inaugural address in 1865. He concluded so eloquently and timelessly, "With malice toward none ... let us strive on to finish the work we are in, to bind up the nation's wounds, to care for him who shall have borne the battle and for his widow and his orphan, to do all which may achieve and cherish a just and lasting peace among ourselves and with all nations."

I sincerely hope that on  Nov. 8, the sheer force of America's conscience will vanish the forces of bigotry and xenophobia, which are bent on dividing this country.

Atul M. Karnik.

Woodside, N.Y.

FACEBOOK.

Michelle Obama provided Melania Trump with fresh material for years. Unfortunately, the Democrats couldn't find anyone to play the role of Sen. Ted Cruz in their convention.

Republicans are still way ahead on dysfunctionality points.

Kevin Hays.

Got to give Sen. Bernie Sanders' supporters credit. The lies from Sanders as he "endorses" Hillary Clinton do not fool them.

Kristen Cooper.

Like night and day compared with the Republican National Convention last week of doom and gloom. This week is positive.

Bobba Luie.

TWITTER.

We asked our followers who their favorite speaker was during the opening night of the Democratic convention.

I liked Cory Booker's passion and style. Michelle Obama was a close second.

@srobbins2188.

I loved them all, but I think Michelle Obama touched my heart.

@donnamcd40.

Sarah Silverman telling #BernieOrBust people they're being ridiculous.

@ventytre.

Michele talking about Hillary Clinton and her husband breaking down gender and racial barriers to become president.

@JeffOstach.

Michelle was a class act, touching and inspiring. But Cory Booker got the party going!

@peacockhill.
