Clinton sharpens focus on Sanders as N.Y. nears.

Hillary Clinton is keeping a lid on Bernie Sanders' appeal in New York -- by touting her Senate record upstate and pounding him on the gun issue in the Big Apple.

It's a two-pronged strategy to appeal to liberal and black voters around Manhattan on the one issue on which  she's to the left of the Vermont senator -- firearms -- while emphasizing to upstate voters her efforts on jobs as a U.S. senator.

New York is a critical battleground for both candidates, and recent polls show Clinton with a double-digit lead. Though Clinton maintains a large pledged delegate lead over Sanders, a narrower victory in the state she represented in the Senate for eight years would raise questions about her strength as a general-election candidate.

Sanders may have his best chance of challenging Clinton upstate, where he's pushing an offensive on fracking and trade deals that have hurt manufacturing jobs, an issue that helped him pull off a win over Clinton last month in Michigan. Tuesday, the Vermont senator opened a Rochester rally blasting Clinton for promoting fracking in other countries while secretary of State.

Sanders also has fared best in states where the population is less diverse, so the demographics upstate, which is whiter than New York City and surrounding areas, could favor him as well.

Still,  Clinton campaign aides believe her efforts as a New York senator for eight years, promoting economic development in communities such as Buffalo, will offset Sanders' potential advantage. Her chief policy aide, Jake Sullivan, calls her record a "blueprint" for how she would seek to create good-paying jobs nationwide.

What's more, Clinton figures to fare well in and around New York City, which has a large population of minority and affluent voters, demographic groups that favored her in other states. Perhaps most important, New York's primary is closed to independent voters who've bolstered Sanders in such states as New Hampshire.

Sanders' insurgent campaign has won eight of the last nine contests, including the Wyoming Democratic caucuses on Saturday. (The total includes his Democrats Abroad win.) Yet his streak may end unless he can narrow the gap with Clinton in New York and delegate-rich states that vote a week later, including Pennsylvania and Maryland.

Both candidates have a final chance to appeal to the state's voters during a debate in Brooklyn hosted by CNN on Thursday.