Historians: Clinton, Obama linked no matter what; 
Her fate in November election hinges on Obama's popularity at the time, analyst says.

For better or worse, Hillary Clinton's success in November will be closely tied to what people think of President Obama.

Fortunately for Clinton, right now the president is more popular than the Democratic nominee or Donald Trump.

"She will win if Obama is still popular in November. And she will lose if he becomes -- for whatever reason -- unpopular," said Larry Sabato, director of University of Virginia's Center for Politics. He added that something "has to be big" for Obama's popularity to drop between now and Election Day, such as "a surprise recession or some very serious domestic terrorism."

Clinton has aligned herself closely with the president on most policy issues -- although she has come out against the Trans-Pacific Partnership trade deal he is pushing -- and the two were literally arm in arm at the convention. In his speech, Obama positioned Clinton as the most qualified person ever to run for president and said his former secretary of State would finish the job  he started.

During an economic policy speech Monday in Detroit, Trump attempted to tie Clinton and Obama together repeatedly. At least a half-dozen times, Trump cited "Obama-Clinton" policies, which he said had harmed the economy. Trump also attempted to portray a potential Clinton presidency as an extension of the Obama administration.

"The other party has reached backwards into the past to choose a nominee from yesterday -- who offers only the rhetoric of yesterday, and the policies of yesterday. There will be no change under Hillary Clinton -- only four more years of Obama," Trump said.

"You can't run away from the president of your own party. You can try. It's never worked anytime in modern American political history," said Allan Lichtman, a distinguished professor of history at American University who has successfully predicted the outcome of every presidential election since 1984 based on a 13-question algorithm.

For Clinton so far, polls  suggest she shouldn't try.

Obama's approval rating has risen to the low 50s, while Clinton and Trump's favorability ratings were the same in late July at 37%, according to Gallup. The RealClearPolitics rolling average of polls shows Clinton's figure has improved to the low 40s since the end of the Democratic convention, however, while Trump's remains in the 30s.

Her approach of embracing the president she hopes to succeed differs from that taken by other recent nominees of the incumbent party.

In 2008, Arizona Sen. John McCain distanced himself from President George W. Bush because the outgoing president was wildly unpopular. Bush's approval rating dipped into the mid-20s right before the election, according to Gallup.

"Why in the world would you try to cozy up to George W. Bush?" Lichtman said about McCain's effort to downplay his connections with Bush. He added, though, that in the end "McCain couldn't escape (Bush's record) and for all his attempts to distance himself, it didn't work."

In 2000, then-vice president Al Gore also distanced himself from then-president Bill Clinton. This was trickier, though, because Clinton had a high approval rating -- by Election Day, he was hovering near 60% -- but he was also plagued by the fallout from the Monica Lewinsky scandal.

Gore tried  to disassociate himself from Clinton, and in doing so he "made a strategic mistake," Lichtman said.

In contrast, when Vice President George H.W. Bush ran in 1988, he "wrapped himself in the mantle of then-president Ronald Reagan as closely as possible," Lichtman said. Reagan's Gallup average that year was 53%, and Bush won the election handily.

"I think there's a sense in which Clinton needs Barack Obama's coattails," said Mike Purdy,  a presidential historian and runs the presidentialhistory.com website. "She needs Barack Obama to build up the enthusiasm of the winning coalition that he brought forth in 2008 and 2012."

Events could still intercede that could damage Obama's standing. On Friday, the Labor Department announced it  added 255,000 jobs in July. That number follows 292,000 in June and is good news for both Obama and Clinton. That follows not-so-good news that the gross domestic product increased just 1.2% in the second quarter of 2016.

Michele Swers, a professor of government at Georgetown University, said that Clinton's alliance with Obama is particularly important in order to bring in Democrats who will mobilize to help her win. Swers said because Obama is popular with Democratic voters, "he's a very good campaign surrogate for her."