Trump didn't need to meet with PeÃ±a Nieto.

FACEBOOK.

Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump met with Mexican President Enrique PeÃ±a Nieto on Wednesday.

First Trump goes to Louisiana to meet the victims, now he meets with the president of Mexico. Trump has done more presidential things in two weeks than President Obama or Hillary Clinton have in 2016.

So golf and fundraising aren't what make an effective president? Huh.

David Groner.

Looks like someone told Trump that without the Latino vote he is dead in the water. If he reverses his stance now, he looks like a flake, and if he doesn't, he loses the election. This is why you get a quality campaign manager and speech writer on board before you open your mouth.

Sy Burr.

No wonder Trump said, and I quote, "We love the poorly educated." He is treating his supporters as ignorants who will believe anything he says. Sad.

Noemi Acevedo Garcia.

Trump had an opportunity to demonstrate maturity instead of petulance. A constructive, give-and-take discussion with the Mexican president, and an issue-based speech regarding illegal immigration in America, were necessary to rebuild even a semblance of confidence in his candidacy.

The month after his nomination has been wasted on ill-advised dust-ups with individuals.

The time is growing ever shorter for him to address the very real confidence issue he has with the voting public. If he chooses, he can sound presidential, if he simply seizes the chance to do so.

Peter Fonseca.

Did the president of Mexico put money into the Clinton Foundation? No? Then sorry. Clinton is not accepting the invitation from PeÃ±a Nieto. You can still change her mind, President PeÃ±a Nieto!

David Groner.

He did not need to meet with a Mexican to determine what is good for Americans.

Ken White.

TWITTER.

We asked our followers their thoughts on Donald Trump meeting with Mexican President Enrique PeÃ±a Nieto.

I think this meeting is too little too late, and it will have no effect on voters after hearing Trump's rhetoric.

@hotflesh.

It's an act of desperation on both sides. Trump wants the votes and PeÃ±a Nieto wants to be a hero. Too late.

@jamezolah.

Trump pulled in massive support from his hard-line stance on immigration. It's a betrayal to his followers.

@InvokeTruth.

Unexpected and intelligent, diplomatic move by Trump!

@MurrayMaza.

It's theater. Trump has pandered to the alt-right for over a year. Who is he trying to kid?

@RMAlvarado52.
