Clinton and Sanders face the voters in N.H.; 
Health care and education among top issues at town hall.

Democratic presidential candidates Hillary Clinton and Bernie Sanders made their cases to voters in New Hampshire on Wednesday, just six days before the state's first-in-the-nation primary.

Sanders went first at the town hall hosted by CNN, predicting a closer-than-expected primary despite his double-digit lead in polls over Clinton.

"We have come a pretty long way in the last nine months," he said, noting that at one point earlier in the campaign he had trailed Clinton by 50 points. "We're going to work as hard as we can to win."

The town hall was designed to let New Hampshire voters pose questions about their top concerns to the two candidates.

Chris Brownell, an audience member, said he makes $41,000 a year and questioned how he would be helped by Sanders' plan to raise taxes to finance his health care plan.

Sanders said the tax increase would be more than offset by the $5,000 a year people would save by not having to pay health insurance premiums.

"I've been criticized for this, but I believe health care is a right for all people," he said.

The Clinton campaign says progressives agree Sanders' health care math doesn't add up and that Sanders reversed his prior commitment not to raise taxes on the middle class to fund any proposal other than paid leave. Clinton has said she would not raise taxes on middle class families.

Heather Johnston, a 26-year-old benefits manager from Derry, said before attending Wednesday's town hall that CNN asked her to pose a question about her top issue: student debt.

Johnston graduated from Keene State College owing more than $90,000. She brought that down to $42,000 in five years, but said she couldn't fulfill her dream of teaching high school because she wouldn't have earned enough to repay her loans.

She plans to vote in the Democratic primary but is undecided.

"I feel like I'm in indentured servitude to my education," she said. "Every time I get together with my friends, that's our No. 1 topic of discussion."