Poll: 3 battleground Senate races are tight; 
Candidates locked in competition in Ohio, Pennsylvania, Florida.

Battleground Senate races in Ohio, Pennsylvania and Florida are all close, a Quinnipiac University poll shows.

The poll found that 43% of Ohio voters support former Democratic governor Ted Strickland, and 42% support Republican Sen. Rob Portman -- a dead heat, and virtually unchanged from the past two Quinnipiac polls, in February and October.

In Florida, the race to replace Florida Sen. Marco Rubio remains wide open. Five Republicans and two Democrats are competing before that state's primary Aug. 30. Rep. Patrick Murphy does better than fellow Democrat Alan Grayson against several Republican challengers, but roughly a third of the electorate remains undecided.

Rubio, who got trounced by Donald Trump in Florida's presidential primary March 15, still doesn't resonate highly in his home state. He has a negative 42%-49% approval rating.

In Pennsylvania, Republican Sen. Pat Toomey has 45%, while Democratic challenger Katie McGinty has 44%.

Quinnipiac conducted the poll of 1,042 Ohio registered voters from April 27 through Sunday.

The university surveyed 1,051 registered voters in Florida and 1,077 in Pennsylvania, two other battleground states where voters will help determine which party controls the Senate in 2017. The margin of error for all three state polls was +/-3 percentage points.

In Ohio, the poll reaffirmed that Portman's biggest liability is his low name recognition: 42% of Ohioans say they don't know enough about the Republican to have an opinion.

The poll showed a majority of registered Ohio voters say the Senate should take up President Obama's nomination of Merrick Garland to fill the Supreme Court vacancy: 56% of Buckeye State voters want action compared with 38% who support the GOP's refusal to hold hearings or a vote on Garland.

Garland's nomination has become a political football in Ohio's Senate race as Democrats blast Portman almost daily for his decision to block a confirmation vote on Garland.

Contributing: Ledyard King.