'Carson is cratering' while Trump rises on tough talk; 
Questions on Carson could be openings for Cruz and Rubio.

Ben Carson appears to be slipping.

For the first time since early October, Carson has dropped out of the top three in the weekly GOP Power Rankings.

Each week, we ask 30 smart political types who they think is the strongest candidate in the GOP field, and in the wake of the Paris terror attacks, the answer is clear: Trump up, Carson down. This is the first week that Carson did not receive a single first-place vote from our panel.

"Carson is cratering," Texas-based Matt Mackowiak said. "Support was soft to begin with, and his campaign was woefully unprepared for front-runner scrutiny."

And Donald Trump just keeps getting stronger. "Whether you agree or not, the clear and tough message from Trump on foreign affairs resonates with a large chunk of primary voters. That's enough to keep him on top for now," said Phil Musser of digital consulting firm IMGE.

Trump got 18 first-place votes this week, Marco Rubio got seven and Ted Cruz got three.

Despite Trump's continued strength, our experts see other candidates best positioned to gain from Carson's struggles.

"Cruz and Rubio are moving up," former presidential candidate Herman Cain said. "Carson is losing a little support."

Journalist Carl Leubsdorf said Carson is "losing strength because of questions about his autobiography and his foreign policy knowledge. Some of his evangelical support appears to be moving to Cruz, especially in pivotal Iowa."

"I'm putting Cruz second this week," former congressman Dan Maffei said. "He is holding his own in the polls, and the Christian right loves him. When Carson eventually collapses, he will benefit."

Outside the top three, the big change in our rankings is Bobby Jindal's departure from the race, which may reduce some competition for the evangelical vote in Iowa. Nobody else in the field looks primed to break out of the pack.

"What stuns me is how little the playing field seems to shift week to week," Twitter's Adam Sharp said.

WEEK 13.

1. Donald Trump (Last week: 2.)

2. Marco Rubio (1.)

3. Ted Cruz (4.)

4. Ben Carson (3.)

5. Jeb Bush (5.)

6. Chris Christie (6.)

7. John Kasich (8.)

8. Carly Fiorina (7.)

9. Rand Paul (9.)

10. Mike Huckabee (10.)

11. Rick Santorum (13.)

12. Lindsey Graham (11.)

13. George Pataki (14.)

14. Jim Gilmore (15.)