American dream survives among Millennials, poll finds; 
Generation expects more success, though definition is different.

In a changing economy, Millennials still believe in the American dream.

Despite growing up during the worst downturn since the Great Depression -- and coming of age at a time of wage stagnation and widening income inequality -- more than two-thirds of those in the nation's rising generation predict they will be more successful in their professional lives than their parents were. One in five say that won't be true.

"I feel that I will be more successful than my parents in my professional life because of my level of education," says Diana Ruocco, 21, a student from Daytona Beach, Fla., who was among those surveyed. "But I think the 'American dream' has changed,"  because of dramatic shifts in the economy.

"Our ideas of 'success' are different," agrees Michelle Stevens, 30, of Gainesville, Fla.

The latest USA TODAY/Rock the Vote Poll of 18-to-34-year-olds explores the economic expectations and concerns of the largest generation in U.S. history, an accelerating force that is changing the way consumer goods are sold, elections are won and careers are pursued. The poll, the second in an election year series, is part of USA TODAY's One Nation initiative, a series of forums across the USA on the most important issues of 2016.

After the financial crash of 2008 and the economic woes that followed, adults of all ages bemoaned the demise of the American dream, the animating belief that with hard work, the next generation will have the opportunity for a better life than the previous one. Millennials still embrace that idea and across demographic lines.

Thirty percent of whites "strongly agree" that they will be more successful professionally than the previous generation. Optimism is even higher among African Americans (34% "strongly agree") and Hispanics (32%). Asian Americans are a bit less upbeat, at 26%.

That said, Millennials say they believe success will require a lifetime of effort on their parts. Nearly nine out of 10 say they will need to continually develop new skills to advance their careers.

They are surprisingly skeptical of the "sharing economy" that their generation pioneered, including the explosion of app-based services such as Uber. Just shy of half, 49%, say the "sharing economy" reflects an improvement on the American economy. Nearly a third say they don't know, a higher level of uncertainty than on other economic questions, and one in five say it's not an improvement.

"With a profession like Uber, you will be able to see more people who will be able to enter the current job market," says Gavin Hamilton, 23, a student from Fresno, Calif. "I think it'd offer more jobs in areas that we're not seeing right now."

"Your own success is completely dependent on how you want to deliver it," Stevens says, but she cautions that she sees "two different flip sides to it."

By big margins, those surveyed say the economy, including jobs and the minimum wage, should be the first priority for the next president.

Other issues at the top of the list relate to the economy: The second is education, college affordability and student debt. The third is health care.

Trailing far behind, at fourth, is foreign policy and terrorism.

"Immigration is important but in my view, it's education," says Melissa Roloson, 32, of Sodus in Upstate New York, who works in retail. Roloson supports Democrat Hillary Clinton in the presidential race. "I'm a college graduate, but I have student loans, and I don't have a great job."

Ashley Yago, 33, a supporter of Republican Donald Trump who lives across the country in Greeley, Colo., finds herself in a similar retail job and with a similar outlook.

"I've had two grants, but I'm still hung up with schools and have loans," she said in a follow-up phone interview.