Bleak outlook for Bloomberg independent run; 
Chances of former mayor winning are small, according to poll.

It was less than three years ago that Michael Bloomberg, who's thinking about running for president, said it was "impossible" for him or any independent candidate to reach the White House.

A new national poll suggests that the former mayor of New York may have been right the first time and that his candidacy could change the election's dynamics.

A USA TODAY/Suffolk University poll found that in a hypothetical race with Donald Trump as the Republican nominee and Bernie Sanders leading the Democratic ticket,  Trump was chosen by 37% of likely voters, Sanders by 30% and Bloomberg by 16%.

Without Bloomberg in the mix, Trump and Sanders were in a dead heat -- 44% to 43%, within the poll's margin of error. Bloomberg drew 13 percentage points from Sanders and 7 from Trump.

The poll addresses a question Bloomberg seemed to have settled for himself years ago.

"I am 100% convinced that you cannot win an election unless you are the nominee of one of the two major parties," Bloomberg told New York magazine in 2013, a few months before his third and final term as New York's mayor ended.

Five years earlier, Bloomberg had decided not to make a 2008 presidential bid, half-joking to friends that the nation wasn't ready for a short, divorced Jewish billionaire in the White House.

Now Bloomberg says he's so distressed by the tone of the presidential campaign -- "an outrage and an insult to voters" -- that he's considering what he so categorically dismissed.

Trump said he'd welcome Bloomberg's entry.

Bloomberg's mayoral record contains much to please (and dismay) Democrats and Republicans, liberals and conservatives. To the extent that voters outside metro New York know Bloomberg, they may think of him more as the gun control advocate who tried to ban sales of sodas over 16ounces than a business entrepreneur who backed stop-and-frisk police tactics.

Whatever Bloomberg's impact on the race, "his chances of winning are very slim," says Walter Stone, co-author of Three's a Crowd, a study of third-party presidential bids. "The deck is stacked against him."

Bloomberg has an impressive rÃ©sumÃ©: a self-made billionaire who founded a global financial information company; a philanthropist who's given billions; a mayor who presided over historic reductions in crime, helped the city recover from 9/11 and banned smoking in bars.

He's covered all the political bases. Initially a Democrat, he ran in 2001 for mayor as a Republican and declared himself an independent in 2007.

More than half of respondents in the USA TODAY/Suffolk poll said  the nation needs more than two political parties to represent political views.

Bloomberg's pollster, Douglas Schoen, says his man has the money, message, independence and time to fill that need. "I don't think the conventional wisdom" -- that Bloomberg is perceived as a New York nanny-state liberal -- "is going to last," he says. "The mayor would be able to build support rapidly."

Fifteen percent of voters in the poll were undecided about the hypothetical three-candidate race.

Bloomberg's "looks like a vanity candidacy, not pushed by a public movement and without a cause," says Geoffrey Cowan, a longtime Democratic Party activist and author of Let the People Rule: Theodore Roosevelt and the Birth of the Presidential Primary. "Who's demanding that Michael Bloomberg run?"

Neither history nor logistics are on Bloomberg's side.

Largely because of the winner-take-all nature of the Electoral College, no third-party candidate has ever been directly elected president; none since 1912 has beaten either major party candidate; none since 1968 has won a single electoral vote. That includes Ross Perot, who got 19% of the popular vote in 1992.

The strongest of these doomed efforts had one of three things going for them: a colorful candidate (Perot); a resonant issue (the anti-Washington feeling proclaimed by George Wallace in 1968) or a regional base (the South for "Dixiecrat" Strom Thurmond in 1948).

Bloomberg is a stiff campaigner who got 51% of the mayoral vote in 2009 despite spending $102 million ($174 a vote).

His issue would be his own competence and non-partisanship, hardly a rousing call to arms.

His region hasn't produced a president since 1960, and its loyalty might be claimed by one or more of his rivals (Sanders, Hillary Clinton or Trump).

Nor is it clear that Bloomberg is the perfect centrist. He's a more dedicated proponent of gun control than many Democrats and a more enthusiastic defender of Wall Street than many Republicans.

Stone says the increase in polarization and partisanship that Bloomberg decries also makes his election even less likely.

The more politics gets polarized, the more voters fear the candidate at the pole furthest from them. As Election Day nears, Stone says, the number of real independents -- always exaggerated to begin with -- shrinks as those in the middle flee to the poles toward which they were leaning all along.

In this vision, voters for whom a Trump presidency is the worst possible result would flee to Sanders because they're not willing to risk wasting their vote on Bloomberg; voters for whom a Sanders victory is anathema would do the opposite.

It's easy to see why Bloomberg is tempted to run, given his enormous ambition and low threshold for boredom. For 12 years, he had what is often described as the nation's second-biggest job. In the New York magazine interview in 2013, he admitted that philanthropy -- even on his own heroic scale -- would not be enough to keep him satisfied after leaving Gracie Mansion.

Bloomberg turned 74 on Valentine's Day. This would almost certainly be his last shot at an office he's wanted to hold since he was a teenager.

The last man to mount a major third-party presidential race says he doesn't think Bloomberg will take it.

"We've talked about it in the past, and I believe him when he says he'd only be in it to win, not to be a spoiler or make points," says Ralph Nader, still excoriated by Democrats for tipping the 2000 election to George W. Bush.