Millenials aren't buying Trump's media-blaming.

LETTERS.

Donald Trump has a long history of blaming others for his mostly self-inflicted wounds. In Sen. Jeff Sessions' column on Aug. 10, "The piling on must stop," the Republican from Alabama seems to be doing the same in blaming Trump's decline in the polls on the news media.

When Trump incites violence with his "Second Amendment people" remark and undermines citizens' confidence in the electoral process by suggesting the November election may be rigged, I am glad journalists are pointing this out and informing us that such remarks are truly unprecedented.

Richard Hays Powell.

Gainesville, Fla.

FACEBOOK.

Young voters are too intelligent and not racist enough to vote for Donald Trump.

Ken Kenjo.

Good, young voters are the ones who are going to be most harmed by Hillary Clinton's Democratic policies. Think you're going to find that good job? Get any benefits from Social Security and Medicare taxes you'll be paying (if you get a job)? Find health care at a price you can afford? Be able to buy a house? You deserve to bear the brunt of the folly you vote for. Enjoy.

Don Scotter.

No surprise when the youth have the attention span of a Vine video and can't read more than a headline. What I can share is what the press avoids: I and many others are Democrats, who are voting for a Republican president for the first time!

Jeremy Oakley.

Republicans, your problem isn't that the news media is biased; the problem is that your nominee enjoys shooting himself in the foot. Voters are rejecting him. Who cares about the news media?

Jason Cline.

Hopefully, this will be the end of the Republican era and maybe the party itself. The U.S. will be able to advance and progress like the rest of the civilized world. Hail Trump for destroying the Republican Party.

Joseph Pitaru.

TWITTER.

We asked our followers what they thought Hillary Clinton was doing better than Donald Trump to attract young voters.

Unlike Trump, Clinton's supporting civil rights.

@Knottm92.

If it's true, it's because the young ones don't see the truth about her and Bill's history, and refuse to look deeper than "free" stuff.

@lisatanker5.

Clinton exudes class and knowledge. Trump spews hate and ignorance.

@barry_abby.

Getting the news media to pump out bad information on Trump and deflect information on her. Enough said.

@whosyourdawgy.

Clinton actually has concrete solutions, which to an information-obessesed generation is paramount.

@ThatotherSir.

Nothing. By default, Clinton has gained young voters after Sen. Bernie Sanders was no longer an option.

@HDblurredvision.

Trump is divisive and Clinton is inclusive.

@LaurieM07.
