Energy, guns top young voters' agenda; 
Millennials aren't tied to single political party.

Millennials have a message for the next president.

Get serious about converting to renewable energy, the under-35 generation says by an overwhelming margin, and require every gun buyer to undergo a background check. They endorse putting body cameras on police officers and accepting refugees from war-torn countries such as Syria.

A USA TODAY/Rock the Vote Millennial Poll finds an emerging generation that is more pragmatic than ideological and not firmly aligned with either political party. Donald Trump leads the Republican field among Millennials, and Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders the Democratic one -- especially among Millennial women. Across partisan lines, Millennials have reached a generational consensus on some of the major issues that have proved divisive for their elders.

What is less certain, the  survey shows, is whether they'll bother to vote in 2016, even in an election in which they identify an agenda they call crucial.

President Obama is preparing to deliver his State of the Union Address before a joint session of Congress on Tuesday night, and the contests to win the Democratic and Republican nominations to succeed President Obama begin in three weeks -- an apt moment to look at attitudes of a  tide that over time is likely to reshape American politics. The poll is part of USA TODAY's One Nation initiative, a series of forums across the country on the most important issues of 2016.

"I'm a voter," declares Stephanie Acs, 27, a Navy veteran attending school in Albuquerque who was among those polled. "If I have a view on something, I don't just post it on Facebook or Twitter."

Dewayne Smithy, 33, of Baldwin, Miss., dismisses the idea that casting a ballot is likely to make a difference. "I can't really find a candidate that I like," he said in a follow-up phone interview.

The top issue by far for Millennials is the economy, including concerns about the minimum wage and paid leave. On that, Millennials have the same pocketbook focus as Baby Boomers and Gen Xers. "I want to make sure the economy is flourishing," says Misha Shah, 32, of Chicago, an account executive for a tech firm that sells networking and storage.

Their second-ranking issue is specific to their stage of life: college affordability and student debt. That's followed  by foreign policy and terrorism, health care, guns and climate change.

Brianne Stone, 29, of Huntsville, Ala., says her biggest concern is global warming. "We aren't going to take any actions, and by the time that we do, it's going to be the point that it's too late," she says. She wants the candidates "first and foremost to admit that it's a real thing."

By an overwhelming 80%-10%, those surveyed say the United States should transition to mostly clean or renewable energy by 2030, an ambitious goal that would surely require the leadership of the next president. By a lopsided 82%-12%, Millennials support background checks for all gun purchasers. Though that's an issue that splits Congress, there is almost no partisan divide among Millennials: 89% of young Democrats and 83% of young Republicans endorse universal background checks.

By double digits, those surveyed say stricter gun laws would help prevent gun violence, though they blame failures in the mental health system, not gun laws, for mass shootings.

"I'm all for the Second Amendment and protecting it," says Jorge Antonio Villasenor Llamas, 31, of Tujunga, Calif., but he was shocked when he heard about the  "gun show loophole" that allows some purchasers to bypass background checks. "It kind of scares me," he says.

What Ideology?

When it comes to public policy, Millennials aren't reliably liberal or conservative.

On economic issues, more call themselves conservative (38%) than liberal (33%). By a wider margin, on foreign policy, they also are inclined to describe themselves as conservative (37% to 28%). It is on social issues that they lean left: 42% say they're liberal, 32% call themselves conservative on questions including race relations and gay rights.

Even so, voters under 35 have a partisan tilt: 41% identify with the Democratic Party, 28% with the GOP. That presumably means the Republican Party's stance on social issues undercuts its potential appeal to Millennials on foreign policy and the economy.

Donald Trump easily leads the field among younger Republicans and independents, at 26%, but that is a lower level of support than the billionaire businessman holds in the overall electorate. He is backed by 34% of GOP voters in the RealClearPolitics average of recent national surveys.

"I'm not really sure where I stand on him right now," says Acs, the student from New Mexico and a Republican. Trump's support nationwide and in key states means "he must be doing something right," she says, "but I don't know if I would vote for him."

On the Democratic side, among the overall electorate in national polls, Hillary Clinton leads Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders by close to 20 percentage points. But Sanders, the oldest candidate running, has captured the allegiance of younger voters. The 73-year-old Democratic socialist from the Green Mountain State leads Clinton, 46%-35%, among Millennial Democrats and independents.

"The Bernie Sanders thing has really got me on board," says Scott McGeary, an IT professional from Seattle. "I was pretty cynical at first about the whole movement -- I mean, I supported it, but I had no idea it would pick up this kind of steam."

Indeed, he says he might leave the country if Sanders isn't elected because of his frustration that the United States isn't doing more to address issues such as social inequality and health care.

There is an age divide within the Millennial generation. Among those 18 to 25 years old, Sanders has a big lead. Among those 26 to 34, Clinton has a small edge.

There is a gender gap as well -- and not the one that favors Clinton among Baby Boomer women. Men under 35 support Sanders by 4 percentage points. Women back him by almost 20 points. The possibility of breaking ground by electing the first female president apparently carries less persuasive power among younger women than their mothers' generation.

Addressing violence.

By 2-1, Millennials see police violence against African Americans as a problem, and three-fourths say the government should require police officers to wear body cameras to protect citizens. Two-thirds support reducing the prison sentences for people convicted of non-violent crimes such as drug possession.

There is less consensus when it comes to fighting terrorism: 47% say the United States should commit troops on the ground to combat the self-proclaimed Islamic State; 37% disagree. On this issue, there is a partisan divide: a 69% majority of Republicans support deploying ground forces; a 45% plurality of Democrats oppose the idea.

The threat of terrorism  has helped shape the Millennial generation the way the Cold War shaped Baby Boomers. The Millennials were 4 to 20 years old when the 9/11 attackers struck in 2001; now some have served themselves in the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.

The Census Bureau says Millennials,  numbering 75.3 million, surpassed Baby Boomers in 2015 as the largest living generation.

"These poll numbers should put to rest the notion that Millennials are unaware of the value of their vote," said Ashley Spillane, president of Rock the Vote. "But the numbers also underscore how critical the work we do to engage young people in the entire civic process -- from demystifying registration and voting to providing key information about candidates and issues. It's on all of us to make sure new voters  know how  critical they are to the future of our democracy."