Parents of two Benghazi victims sue Hillary Clinton; 
Longtime Clinton foe files wrongful death claim for clients.

Patricia Smith and Charles Woods, the parents of two Americans killed in the 2012 attacks on a U.S. diplomatic compound in Benghazi, Libya, have filed a wrongful death lawsuit against Hillary Clinton.

The lawsuit contends that "the deaths of Sean Smith and Tyrone Woods were directly and proximately caused by the negligent and reckless actions" of Clinton, who was secretary of State at the time. It goes on to specifically fault Clinton's use of a private email server while at the State Department, saying any information received or sent through her personal account was "compromised" and ultimately helped facilitate the attack.

The suit was filed  in Washington, D.C., on Monday.

Smith and Woods are represented by attorney Larry Klayman, who has long targeted the Clintons, dating back to the administration of President Bill Clinton in the 1990s.

The lawsuit also alleges defamation by Clinton over her public statements about whether she'd attributed the attack to an anti-Muslim video in her discussions with family members.

Smith spoke at last month's Republican National Convention in Cleveland and delivered a critique of Hillary Clinton's handling of Benghazi, where four Americans lost their lives.

"I blame Hillary Clinton personally for the death of my son," Patricia Smith said.

In a statement, Clinton campaign spokesman Nick Merrill said, "While no one can imagine the pain of the families of the brave Americans we lost at Benghazi, there have been nine different investigations into this attack and none found any evidence whatsoever of any wrongdoing on the part of Hillary Clinton."

In June, House Republicans issued a report from a two-year investigation into the Benghazi attacks that cited the Obama administration for security lapses but revealed nothing new about Clinton's handling of the matter.

Last month, FBI Director James Comey called Clinton's use of private email servers "extremely careless," but said she should face no criminal charges, a recommendation Attorney General Loretta Lynch  adopted.