Walls and bans won't thwart lone wolves.

President Obama had a talk this week with Francois Hollande. The French president expressed his condolences over the Orlando massacre, while Obama offered his own condolences for the lone-wolf attack in which a knife-wielding French Islamist killed a police officer and his partner in their suburban Paris home.

Both culprits were native-born in America and France, respectively. Each acted alone for his own reason, but each paid tribute before his deadly action to the Islamic State terrorist group and its fanatic leader, Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi. The Obama administration says that the U.S. military is on the hunt for al-Baghdadi and that when he's found, he'll be taken out as surely as Osama bin Laden was by Navy SEALs five years ago.

During their phone call Tuesday, Obama and Hollande "reaffirmed their shared commitment to degrading and destroying ISIL and standing against the broader scourge of terrorism," the White House said. But the fact is, no Western nation has yet figured out how to neutralize a fanatical Islamist, acting alone, armed with a warped hatred of all his surroundings.

So clearly, Donald Trump has it wrong. It's not Barack Obama or Hillary Clinton who should be the targets of his wrath. Terrorism of this variety is a global dilemma. It's simply all but impossible to identify these fanatics until they attack -- when it's too late. And however many walls America builds, however many nationalities or religions are banned from our shores, Orlando can still happen.

France's latest radical and violent jihadist, Larossi Abballa, first came to the attention of anti-terrorist police back in 2011. But at the time, as anti-terrorist prosecutor Marc TrÃ©vidic put it, "apart from (traveling with the) wrong crowd and some jogging for fitness, there was not much to complain about in the strict terms of criminal prosecution."

Even so, the police held Abballa for a while. Eventually he was sentenced to three years, including six months behind bars. But because he had already spent time in detention, he found himself quickly again on the street. Others in his little jogging group had already headed to the Middle East or Pakistan for training, but authorities never quite realized that the joggers had already identified a number of anti-terrorist police officers to attack.

Since the violent assaults that killed 130 in Paris last November and 32 in Brussels in March, few areas of the world have been more vigilant or more heavily patrolled by military and police forces. But there have been no serious calls to close France's borders or to bar immigration from the Middle East, with which France maintains close ties.

Western European leaders recognize that Middle Eastern nations can be their allies in the fight against this scourge that has already reached their heartlands. If there is ultimately any solution, it is not walls -- it is linking arms and joining together to excise the cancer that is metastasizing in the Muslim world.

David A. Andelman, a member of the USA TODAY Board of Contributors, is editor emeritus of World Policy Journal.