DEATH, LIES AND PANDERING ON THE CAMPAIGN TRAIL; 
Candidates step up war of words as Iowa caucuses loom.

Donald Trump said Hillary Clinton "caused death." Bernie Sanders called Trump a "pathological liar." Carly Fiorina said Ted Cruz "says whatever he needs to say to get elected."

With voters four weeks away from getting in on the act in Iowa, the leading Democratic and Republican candidates for president found themselves increasingly targeted Sunday by challengers with little time left to make their cases.

Eight candidates went on the attack on television as at least four worked the crowds in New Hampshire, scene of the first-in-the-nation primaries that will follow Iowa's Feb. 1 caucuses.

As usual, it was Trump who commanded most of the attention. Appearing on CBS' Face the Nation, the GOP front-runner said Democratic front-runner Clinton "caused tremendous death" as secretary of State.

"She caused a lot of the problems that we have right now. You could say she caused the migration," Trump said. "The entire world, it's a different place. During Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton's term, she's done a horrible job."

At the same time, the New York billionaire brushed off the significance of a terrorist recruiting video by the organization al-Shabaab that cites his call for a temporary ban on Muslims entering the United States. "What am I going to do? I have to say what I have to say," Trump said. "There's a problem. We have to find out what is the problem. And we have to solve that problem."

What unified the Republican candidates Sunday was President Obama's effort to control the spread of guns, possibly by executive action rather than going through Congress.

Trump blamed the problem of mass shootings on "sickos" and suggested building institutions to house them. Former Florida governor Jeb Bush called the use of executive orders "quite dangerous." New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie, hoping to surge in New Hampshire, called Obama a "petulant child" who's acting "as if he is a king, as if he is a dictator."

With most of the attention focused on front-runners Clinton, Trump and Cruz, the Texas senator leading the GOP pack in Iowa, most of the other candidates were forced on the defensive about their chances to survive the early contests.

Bush, Christie, Ohio Gov. John Kasich and Sen. Rand Paul of Kentucky all appeared on Sunday news shows to tout their continued viability as alternatives to Trump and Cruz. Fiorina, the former Hewlett-Packard CEO, took on Cruz directly, while Marco Rubio -- perhaps the most likely consensus candidate -- stayed off the airwaves to focus on New Hampshire.

Retired neurosurgeon Ben Carson went on ABC's This Week to defend his recent staff shake-up, viewed as a sign his campaign may be in trouble at the worst possible moment.

Carson brought in a new campaign manager, retired Army general Bob Dees, late last month, leading to the exodus of former campaign manager Barry Bennett and two other top aides. He praised those who left but said, "We're in a different ballgame, and we need the ability to execute and not just to have good ideas."