Millennials don't get socialism; 
Young Sanders supporters never had to live through the Cold War era.

Bernie Sanders' lock on young people has been a constant throughout the Democratic presidential primaries. Exit polling shows he won 83% of voters under 30 in Pennsylvania last month, 74% in Indiana last week and 71% in West Virginia on Tuesday.

Why are Millennials so enamored of Sanders? Most hypotheses credit their enthusiasm for sweeping moral goals such as transparency, fairness and justice. Perhaps young voters prefer Sanders' call for "revolution" over Hillary Clinton's pragmatic incrementalism. Perhaps they are put off by  her questionable use of a private email server and her highly paid speeches on Wall Street.

Clinton has intimated that Sanders'  "diagnoses" of  economic ills (read: without prescriptions) are the big draw. Larry David, playing the 74-year-old Sanders on NBC's Saturday Night Live, explained: "The young people love me ... because I'm like them. I got a lot of big plans and absolutely no idea how to achieve them."

Cold War memory gap.

I'd add a historical reason for the generational split: Millennials have no memories of socialism, communism and the Cold War that framed U.S. foreign policy from 1945 to 1991. During that time, the Soviet Union shifted its economy to government control. The end goal was a Utopian  communist state in which class was abolished, egalitarianism ruled and all citizens would equally own the means of production.

Sanders  calls himself a democratic socialist. For many who lived through the Cold War era, referring to oneself as a socialist elicits reactions that range from dangerous suspicion to  condescension. Previously, a man with avowed respect for Fidel Castro would be disqualified as a high-level politician. Previously, a man who honeymooned in the former Soviet Union would be disqualified. A socialist (democratic or not) would recall not  Scandinavia but aggressive Soviet communism, and would be disqualified.

During the Cold War, many followed President Reagan's dictum that the Soviet Union was an "evil empire" bent on world domination. NATO was formed to contain its expansionist ambitions. Nuclear arsenals were erected against it. American arms flooded into anti-Soviet client states. Proxy battles and covert coups were run from the White House, the Department of Defense, the CIA and the National Security Agency in order to thwart the designs of fledgling revolutions.

For most of the Cold War, little could be trusted because little could be verified. Spies swarmed into the Soviet Union and the satellite nations it controlled. Radio towers were raised to beam Western propaganda to people in the Soviet sphere of influence, to convince them that they had allies in the West.

Empty stores, full Gulags.

It was said  that no matter how attractive a theory, in practice socialism and communism failed to create a strong and diversified enough economic engine to power a first-world nation. There were the endless Soviet blocks of crumbling gray apartment buildings; the bread lines in Leningrad; the empty food-store shelves in Moscow. Soviet expatriates wept as they saw for the first time the abundance in the aisles of American grocery stores.

There were the stories of the Gulag's slave labor, arrests without trial, political purges, the disappearance of writers, artists and dissidents. There was the explosion at the Chernobyl reactor.

All this the Millennials missed. And now, for them, socialism is a doctrine modified by an adjective and associated with the progressive parties of Western Europe. Their impressions fall far short of the miseries of the Warsaw Pact.

Not unlike their late socialist and communist brethren, American youth increasingly have found their bogeymen in the titans of industry. Less and less does the idea of an intrusive Orwellian bureaucracy haunt young Americans. Sanders wants a vast expansion of the federal government, including government-run single-payer health insurance and free public higher education. Most Millennials favor a moderate to large role for government in health care, and they certainly don't mind the idea of free college.

The Black Lives Matter protests against police abuse and young people's militant protection of their privacy rights are exceptions to this generation's big-government predilections. Nonetheless, stripped of the moderating forces of an existential enemy, untroubled by the spectacle of the command-down state, seemingly unaware of the feeble returns of a true socialist economy, Sanders' Millennial guard sounds more and more unbound from reality.

Nuance has left the building, and Clinton is having a hard time getting it back in.

Zachary Jonathan Jacobson is a Cold War historian. He received his Ph.D. from Northwestern University.