Clinton gun-control offensive a preview of Southern strategy; 
She points to Sanders' Senate votes on firearms to cement advantage among minorities.

Hillary Clinton's gun control offensive against Bernie Sanders in South Carolina will provide the template she follows in upcoming state contests with sizable African-American electorates.

Two days in a row this week, Clinton campaigned with mothers who've lost children to gun violence, including Sybrina Fulton, the mother of Trayvon Martin, who was fatally shot in 2012 by a neighborhood watch volunteer in Florida. Her campaign cut a new Web video and held a conference call highlighting Sen. Bernie Sanders' record on guns, including his support of the so-called Charleston loophole, which allowed Dylann Roof to acquire a firearm before completing a background check. Roof is accused of a massacre at a historic black church that left nine dead last year.

Clinton has hammered the Vermont senator for his vote in 2005 shielding gunmakers and sellers from lawsuits stemming from injuries caused by their merchandise -- he's recently co-sponsored legislation that would repeal that measure. Her focus is an attempt to undercut Sanders both on the gun issue and on his populist, anti-corporate message since the vote in 2005 is a rare instance of him siding with companies.

A CNN/ORC poll in January shows 68% of Democratic voters say gun policy will be very important in determining their vote, and as the race turns to states with large African-American communities that have been disproportionately impacted by gun violence, the issue is becoming a bigger focus. The former secretary of State wants to cement what polls show is a nearly 30-point lead over the Vermont senator in the Palmetto state's primary Feb. 27, as well as her advantage in states such as Alabama and Texas that will vote March 1.

Guns are a particularly emotional issue in South Carolina after the Charleston church massacre in June. Tuesday, Clinton was joined by Gabrielle Giffords, a former Arizona congresswoman who survived being shot in the head, and her husband, retired astronaut Mark Kelly.

"Elections matter," Kelly said. "Look at the records. There is only one candidate that has the record and the experience to stand up to a very powerful special interest."

Though it will prove challenging for Sanders to win any state with a large black population, he's gotten some important local politician and celebrity endorsements, most recently entertainer Spike Lee. Clinton's campaign is taking no chances after being caught off guard by a close race in Iowa and a New Hampshire drubbing.

As the Democratic primary race turns south, as well as to states such as Massachusetts and Colorado, Clinton sees the issue as a way to solidify her advantage over Sanders. The senator has often cited his state's rural culture in defending his record.

In 2013, Sanders supported a bipartisan bill to tighten background checks for online and gun show sales. The legislation failed amid stiff Republican opposition.