Clinton tries to avoid setback in Nevada amid Sanders surge; 
Dems in a dead heat as caucuses loom.

Bernie Sanders says he's not just a one-issue candidate who appeals to white voters. The state of Nevada will decide whether he's right.

The Silver State holds its Democratic caucuses on Saturday, and a new CNN/ORC poll shows Hillary Clinton and the Vermont senator in a dead heat. If Clinton loses, it would be the third and perhaps most striking sign yet that her path to the Democratic nomination is anything but inevitable.

The Clinton campaign attributed her unexpectedly narrow Iowa win and 22-point loss in New Hampshire to the states' overwhelmingly white electorates, which favor Sanders.

They can't make the same argument about Nevada, where minority voters in 2008 accounted for 30% of caucusgoers, a number that could be higher on Saturday.

"They've got a real problem if they lose here, because then Sanders can say 'I'm not just a white candidate, I can win anywhere,'" said Jon Ralston, who runs a Nevada politics newsletter.

Right now, the Clinton campaign is "doing everything they can to stop the bleeding," he said.

Targeting the state's  minority populations has been key to Clinton's approach, which includes a Latina-to-Latina phone banking program, Spanish-language caucus training, endorsements from African-American faith leaders and outreach to the state's growing Asian population. Filipino Clinton staffers have been hosting traditional dinners with locals featuring customary banana-leaf seating. She also has the endorsement of most of the state's big unions.

Much like in Iowa, Sanders campaign is leaner. He is rerouting organizers from Iowa and New Hampshire to coordinate an army of volunteers who set up shop on their own before he had a significant presence in the state. Flush with millions of dollars in donations on the heels of New Hampshire, he's also matching Clinton on television ads.

"The Sanders campaign is throwing a lot of money at Nevada in this last week or two to try and make up ground," said Rep. Xavier Becerra, a California Democrat supporting Clinton who's trying to rally Latinos.

Sanders is  getting an assist from two outside GOP spending groups that have released online ads targeting Clinton on immigration and other issues. The stakes are high for both campaigns, Becerra said. "Nevada is a state that will give us a closer read of where the general population is in the country," he said.