Sanders faces test on appeal to minorities; 
Clinton has strong support among African-American voters in S.C.

Now comes the real test for Sen. Bernie Sanders.

After trouncing Hillary Clinton in Tuesday's Democratic presidential primary in New Hampshire, the Vermont senator must prepare to face more diverse electorates as he turns to contests in Nevada on Feb. 20 and South Carolina on Feb. 27.

Sanders has momentum after finishing just 0.3 points behind Clinton at the Iowa caucuses and crushing her by more than 20 points in New Hampshire.

It's unclear whether that will be enough to overcome the former secretary of State's name recognition and long-standing support among African-American voters in later nominating matchups. Those voters are likely to make up more than half the electorate in South Carolina's primary.

"The results of the last two weeks combined showed he's a viable candidate," said Robert Oldendick, a University of South Carolina political science professor. "It will cause the Democratic primary voters here to take him a little more seriously, take a closer look at him. But ... Clinton's lead is very solid."

Clinton led Sanders more than 2-1 in an NBC News/Wall Street Journal/Marist South Carolina poll Jan. 17-23. Her 64%-27% advantage over Sanders among likely Democratic primary voters was largely because of backing from 74% of African-American likely voters, compared with 17% for Sanders.

Nationally, Clinton leads Sanders among Latinos, who will play a prominent role at the Nevada caucuses. Most Southern states that will hold nominating contests March 1 have sizable minority populations.

Sanders, who has represented mostly white Vermont in Congress for two decades, rallied young people with his calls to end the "rigged economy" that he says is maintained by a corrupt campaign-finance system. He said during his victory speech Tuesday that his political revolution will bring together people of all races.

"We will all come together to say loudly and clearly that the government of our great nation belongs to all of us, not just a few wealthy campaign contributors," he said.

Wednesday morning, Sanders had breakfast in New York with Al Sharpton, a civil rights activist who hosts an MSNBC show and is president of the National Action Network, at the Harlem restaurant Sylvia's. Sharpton ate with Barack Obama there during his presidential campaign in 2007.

Sanders' spokesman Michael Briggs said Sharpton asked for the meeting.

Briggs said Sanders has already been tested, coming from 40 to 50 percentage points behind Clinton at the beginning of the campaign to a "dead heat" in Iowa and winning New Hampshire in a "landslide of historic proportions."

"The more people who know about Bernie, the better they like him and the ideas that he's talking about," Briggs said.