Protesters push through intense heat and storms; 
Crowds refuse to let inhospitable weather interfere with expression.

For and against a constellation of causes, hundreds peacefully streamed down the city's main thoroughfare from City Hall amid stifling heat on the opening day of the Democratic National Convention.

Temperatures hovered near 100 degrees, and the heat index reached 109 by late afternoon.

That evening, the heat was broken by violent thunderstorms accompanied by high winds, which caused giant tents to sway outside the convention headquarters at Wells Fargo Center and sent protesters scattering for cover. The tents, constructed to house a massive contingent of media organizations, rumbled but did not buckle.

Samantha Phillips, the city's emergency operations director, said the heat and unsettled weather could last through the end of the week.

Police reported no arrests late Monday, although 55 people were issued citations for disorderly conduct. Though the protests drew substantial numbers, they were far short of the 50,000 per day city officials estimated before the convention opening.

Police Commissioner Richard Ross, who spent much of the morning in the streets near City Hall, described the demonstrations as largely "very peaceful."

"It is going well so far," Ross said. "Police are out there doing their jobs and even getting accolades from some of the protesters."

The friendly interactions between activists and police largely mirrored the street scene last week in Cleveland, which hosted the Republican National Convention without major incident.

Like Cleveland officers, Philadelphia police made heavy use of bikes to guide protesters on marches through the heart of the busy downtown.

Ross said a major concern was the oppressive heat. Officers and other city officials paid close attention to the well-being of protesters by distributing water and checking on elderly demonstrators during their long marches -- about 3 miles -- down Broad Street to the city's FDR Park adjacent to the convention headquarters and Wells Fargo Center.

Activists engaged in a brief sit-in along the march route, demanding that the Mississippi flag, which includes the stars and bars of the Confederacy, be removed from a street display of all state flags. City authorities removed the banner by late afternoon.

Brian Abernathy, the city's first deputy manager, said the flag was removed indefinitely, not just for the run of the convention.

Demanding equality.

The day started early for a group of about 100 people who gathered outside City Hall to rally on behalf of the Equality Coalition. Many carried placards supporting Sanders or slamming the Democratic National Committee. By midday, the group's numbers had swelled to several hundred.

Cory James, 22, of Flint, Mich., said he hadn't given up hope that Sanders could pull a convention "surprise," because he could never vote for presumptive nominee Hillary Clinton. "The Democratic Party doesn't represent me anymore," James said. "It represents corporate interests, that's all."

Joel Bradshaw, 39, bused down from New York on Friday, carrying his "Bernie flag," eager to lend his voice to the downtown demonstration. "If Hillary wants to be queen, we'll bring the guillotine," he said. Bradshaw said he was not advocating violence, only a "loud voice."

Almost as soon as the Equality Coalition left City Hall on its long march down Broad Street, another large group took its place.

A mix of Sanders supporters, opponents of the U.S. drug war and anti-media activists joined in a thunderous chant of "Feel the Bern!" Their voices drowned out traffic cop whistles and car horns along the busy traffic circle.

A "concession" wagon was pulled through the crowd, offering protesters free peanut butter and jelly sandwiches, bagels, peaches and water.

Amnesty International spokesman Eric Ferrero said groups of observers were dispatched with the marchers, whom he described as "peaceful," for the length of the route.

Young entrepreneur.

Amadou Magassa, 13, of Philadelphia sold water and Gatorade on Broad Street in anticipation of the protest. He said he came up with the sign idea: "Democrats $1, Republicans $10 (just kidding -- everyone needs to hydrate today!)" because of the convention.

Sales were great, he said, wiping sweat off his face. Amadou estimated he sold 40 bottles. Only three remained.

Why was he out in 97-degree heat? "My mom says I have to save up for college."

Message of love.

As police copters hovered overhead and emergency vehicles whizzed by with sirens blaring, David Seacord parked his bike at Washington and Broad Streets, just ahead of a few hundred protesters making their way south toward FDR park.

The 68-year-old Oregon native drove from the West Coast to spread his message of love, which he usually preaches at music festivals. After a close call driving down a slick Oregon road a few weeks ago, where his trailer began to fishtail, Seacord said he felt compelled to take his message to a bigger stage -- the DNC -- to counterbalance a campaign season marred by insults, fear mongering and hatred.

An enthusiastic Sanders supporter, Seacord complained of the economic and power imbalance he sees in this country.

"These marches are being held by people who have thrown off concern for political repercussions," he said. "The house of cards is falling down."

Seacord said Clinton and the Democratic establishment are too concerned with self-interest.

Immigration rally.

Angel Mendoza came from Texas to an immigration rally that drew about 100 people. To get their votes, participants said, the Democrats must consider policies to shut down deportation centers and help immigrants.

Growing up in El Paso, Mendoza regularly witnessed families who came to the USA from Mexico.

"The deportation centers are absolutely disrespectable. They are keeping children, and they have cases where they were sick and didn't get any sort of medical attention," he said. "They separate the women and the children, and they keep people from even talking to them and seeing them from inside.

"This is still my family even though we are not blood-related," he said. "We have the same skin color, we have the same history, we have the same culture, we have the same language."

Contributing: Iris Ouyang, Thomas Vogel, Grant Miller and Raquel Zaldivar.