Whigs died, but GOP can survive.

Whether Donald Trump wins or loses in November, the Republican Party will confront profound questions as to what it is, what it stands for, and whom it represents. How it handles those questions will determine whether there is a GOP, as we now know it, on America's future political landscape. Two past elections, over a century apart, suggest both the immediate challenges the GOP faces and the internal questions it must resolve.

In 1848, having lost the previous presidential election to Democrat James Polk, the Whig party faced a dilemma. The Whigs had always stood for certain principles such as economic and industrial growth, bank credits to fund expansion, tariffs to protect indigenous industries, and government-funded improvements of what we  call "infrastructure." But they differed profoundly on slavery and territorial expansion.

Following Polk's victory in  1844, and the subsequent Mexican War, which most Whigs opposed, in 1848 the Whigs nominated Gen. Zachary Taylor, a Mexican War hero and a Louisiana slave owner. Taylor had only one appeal for the Whigs: He was popular and could win.

Opinionated and wrong.

Henry Clay's biographers, David and Jeanne Heidler, wrote that Taylor "had a tin ear, was both opinionated and instinctively wrong, and tended to make the worst political decisions with a certainty that increasingly exasperated the men who were trying" to elect him. After the Whig national convention, several senior leaders started a campaign to remove him from the ticket.

Nonetheless, Taylor won, died in office and was succeeded by Millard Fillmore, an anti-slavery moderate from New York. Fillmore sought to deal with  slavery  by supporting its expansion into the territories won in President Polk's Mexican War. Anti-slavery Whigs punished him in 1852 by nominating New Jersey's Winfield Scott, who lost. The demise of the Whigs soon followed.

In 1964, the GOP faced another divisive moment when Arizona's very conservative Sen. Barry Goldwater forcefully challenged the Republican Eastern establishment that had been forged and led by former president Dwight Eisenhower. David Eisenhower writes in his book Going Home to Glory that the traditional East Coast, internationalist wing of the party pleaded with his grandfather to do something to stop Goldwater. Ike  enticed Pennsylvania Gov. William Scranton to run, but it was too late. Goldwater won the nomination at a contentious convention before being trounced by President  Johnson.

What are the lessons from these rhyming moments of history? In 1848, the Whigs went with a candidate who was invested in neither their party nor its principles. And by picking a slave owner, they exacerbated their most enormous internal fissure rather than addressing it.

By contrast, after the Goldwater disaster, the Republican Party evaluated what happened and decided it needed to return to its traditional moorings rather than move further away. In 1968, the GOP nominated Richard Nixon, its Eastern-wing nominee from 1960, and won.

Political Frankenstein.

In 1980, the Republicans again turned to a Western conservative, Ronald Reagan. But he embraced the Eastern establishment  and consolidated support by picking George H.W. Bush as a running mate. (Reagan also benefited from President Carter's increasingly unpopular handling of Iran and the hostage crisis.) The upshot was a party that survived and won.

Many thought after 2012 that Republicans would have a serious discussion about why they had lost twice to Barack Obama: Were they too conservative, or not conservative enough? Were they too "Tea Party," or not "Tea Party" enough? Party elders did produce an "autopsy" about the need to change, but it had no impact. Four years later, the Tea Party movement has been unable to capture the philosophical soul of the party, and traditional Republicans have been unable to quash the Tea Party.

The result is Trump, who has no firm moorings with either wing, is not a conservative, and is not even a real Republican. Only the most painful intellectual contortions allow traditional Republicans and evangelicals to support Trump. Because the GOP never reconciled what it actually is, its presidential nominee is a political Frankenstein made from the worst possible body parts. Trump is a natural descendant of Zachary Taylor, minus the military service and heroic stature.

The GOP needed a period of reflection, but it avoided having one. The party today agrees only on its opposition to anything Obama wants.

That is hardly sufficient going forward, especially once Obama is former president Obama. This is a party that desperately needs to confront its internal divisions and demons, and to decide who and what it is.

M. Thomas Davis, a retired Army officer who commanded an artillery unit during operations Desert Shield and Desert Storm, taught U.S. politics and government at West Point.