Republicans' reaction: 'Is that all there is?'; 
Candidates say president's anti-terror strategy is inadequate.

President Obama isn't seeking re-election, but his address Sunday about fighting Islamic State-style terrorism will be a major topic of the 2016 race to succeed him, according to Republicans who critiqued the speech.

Donald Trump, the leader in Republican polls, tweeted that Obama had too little to say about defeating the Islamic State in the wake of mass attacks in Paris and San Bernardino, Calif.

"Is that all there is?" Trump said. "We need a new President -- FAST!"

Sen. Marco Rubio, R-Fla., appearing on Fox News right after the speech, said Obama failed to address public concerns about the threats from the Islamic State. Nothing the president said "will assuage people's fears," the Florida senator said.

"We are at war with a radical jihadist group," Rubio said.

Other Republicans echoed those comments, saying Obama's strategy -- airstrikes against Islamic State positions in Iraq and Syria and training local ground forces -- is inadequate to the threat. They criticized Obama for again proposing gun control proposals.

Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., a long-shot presidential candidate, said Obama is overselling the successes that coalition forces have had against the Islamic State, also known as ISIS and ISIL.

Graham, who says the United States and allies should contribute ground forces to the battle, tweeted that the president's strategy "will not destroy ISIL and he knows it."

A former Republican presidential candidate -- John McCain, who lost the 2008 election to Obama -- said the president "offered no changes to his reactive, indirect and incremental strategy."

Republican focus on national security sharpened after the attacks Nov. 13 in Paris, which were claimed by the Islamic State.

The issue ratcheted up further after Wednesday's attacks in San Bernardino, amid reports that the husband-and-wife shooting team may have been radicalized by the Islamic State's calls for jihad.

Since that attack, Republicans have criticized various aspects of the strategy Obama trumpeted during Sunday's prime-time address from the Oval Office.

Some candidates have called for the United States and allies to organize ground forces to fight the Islamic State on the ground in Syria and Iraq, saying airstrikes have been inadequate.

Other Republicans want Obama to push for new laws that would help government investigators penetrate encrypted Internet messages.