Bill is back: Hillary's husband on campaign trail in New Hampshire.

He's back.

Bill Clinton's hair was whiter, his voice hoarser and his demeanor more subdued than when he was seeking to rescue his own beleaguered presidential campaign in New Hampshire in 1992, or even when he was stumping for his wife in her 2008 campaign.

In his solo campaign debut for the 2016 race, the former president gave a capacity crowd of about 700 in Nashua Community College gym a ruminative endorsement of Hillary Clinton that was more personal than political. He didn't mention his own potential impact on her prospects, and there were none of the hecklers or questions that she occasionally has had to face about him.

"This is what I want to say: When we met soon-to-be 45 years ago in a couple of months, when we met, we fell in love," he told them. "I thought she was the most amazing person," he said, as he traced her career from Yale Law School and her early work in Arkansas on behalf of children and the poor. "She hadn't been elected to anything, but everything she touched became better."

He concluded with a history lesson about why New Hampshire native Frankin Pierce was an unsuccessful president and Abraham Lincoln a successful one -- in large part because Lincoln matched the demands of his time.

"I do not believe in my lifetime, anybody has run for this job at a moment of greater importance who was better qualified by knowledge, experience and temperament to do what needs to be done now," Clinton declared of Hillary Clinton, his words drowned by applause.

For this crowd, at least, the former president's past controversies were not an issue for the present campaign.

"You can't blame Hillary Clinton for what Bill Clinton did," said Sara Walker, 44, a home-care aide from Nashua who attended the rally. An immigrant from Uganda who became a U.S. citizen in 2013, she plans to cast her first ballot for Hillary Clinton in the New Hampshire primary next month. "All she went through and to make her a victim -- it's not fair."

The former president brings with him both popularity, especially among Democrats, and personal baggage. On Sunday, at a rally in Derry, N.H., Hillary Clinton rebuffed a Republican heckler trying to ask her about her husband's sexual improprieties. "You're very rude, and I'm not going to ever call on you," Clinton told Katherine Prudhomme O'Brien, a New Hampshire state representative.

Donald Trump may be harder to ignore. After Hillary Clinton accused him of sexism, he warned, "Certainly if they play the woman's card with respect to me, that will be fair game," Trump told NBC's Today show when asked about Bill Clinton.

And America Rising, a conservative political action committee, called the former president less an asset than "a walking liability" for his wife. "Bill Clinton reinforces all the negative attributes voters assign to Secretary Clinton: unethical, dishonest and untrustworthy," spokesman Jeff Bechdel said in a statement issued a half-hour before Clinton's New Hampshire event was set to begin.

Lance Beebe, 49, a Navy veteran who now is a civilian employee of the Air Force, said Hillary Clinton should be ready for questions about her husband. He attended the rally, though he's still not sure whether he'll vote for Clinton or Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders.

"I ask my wife, is she going to be ready to hear questions about it?" he said. "It's going to be all guns blazing."