Clinton coverage highlights TV gender gap.

Usually when history is made, news outlets call upon individuals with unique understanding of the circumstances to interpret the significance of the milestone and explain its consequences -- people whom viewers would consider experts.

Apparently on cable news, women political commentators don't fall into that category. Hillary Clinton made history by winning enough delegates to be the first female presidential nominee from a major party. Yet the analysis of that historic moment has been delegated primarily to male commentators.

On the day when headlines and  photos of the former secretary of State celebrated her political milestone, not one woman appeared on Fox News' The Kelly File. In fact, the only time  Clinton came up was when Megyn Kelly speculated about the cost of her wardrobe, referred to Clinton's supposed divisiveness and considered whether President Obama's endorsement would create a conflict of interest with the investigation of her State Department emails.

Other  shows did a bit better. On CNN's Anderson Cooper 360 and the MSNBC, Fox and CNN morning shows, about one in three of the voices were women. Only The Rachel Maddow Show on MSNBC hit 50%.

We are not surprised. Three months ago,  our three groups launched Who Talks? Our project monitors the number of appearances by male and female analysts on three major cable television news networks: CNN, Fox News and MSNBC. Any guest who is not the host and is asked to comment on the 2016 presidential election is counted.

From March through May, Anderson Cooper 360 was the only show that consistently included close to 50% women in discussions of the campaign. Fox & Friends, The Kelly File and Morning Joe even featured all-male lineups discussing Donald Trump's "woman's card" remark.

Unfortunately, this is a historic pattern. Research conducted for the Women's Media Center showed that men reported 65% of U.S. political stories in 2014. In the 2012 election, 71% of front-page stories were written by men. On cable and network TV, political news show guests and experts were 77% men.

This year, there is no excuse. Women journalists covering politics, women political consultants and women historians abound. They bring insights and analysis reflective of their life experience as well as their professional judgment, whether discussing the economy, women's health, the environment or a woman candidate for president.

Since 1964, a majority of presidential year voters have been women.  This year, given the historic nature of the election, women could make up an even greater share of the electorate.

When one of the two presidential candidates is female, women should be able to expect a better balance of commentary.

Gina Glantz is founder of GenderAvenger.com. Julie Burton is president of the Women's Media Center. Debbie Walsh is director of the Center for American Women and Politics at Rutgers University.