Saturday night's all right for fighting, but not for debates.

To the leading lights of the Democratic Party, it must have seemed like a smart move. By limiting the number of debates among the party's presidential contenders and holding them at odd hours, they could nudge voters in the direction of Hillary Clinton, who is already widely known and seen as the party's most formidable candidate.

But limiting debate almost never works, and it almost always triggers the law of unintended consequences.

In this case, it has allowed the Republicans to dominate the national conversation in the early stages of the presidential race. They have held five debates, to the Democrats' three, and have not followed the Democrats' peculiar practice of scheduling events on Saturday nights. As a result, the GOP debate audiences have been much larger -- as many as 24 million viewers for the top-rated GOP debate, compared with fewer than 8 million for  Saturday's Democratic encounter.

The Republicans have used their massive platform to shape opinion, bash Clinton and leave what could be lasting (though not necessarily favorable) impressions. While they don't yet have a common message about what a Republican presidency would entail, they do have one about the Democrats. You can't get through 60 seconds of a Republican debate without hearing that President Obama and Clinton, as his former secretary of State, have made a mess of things.

The huge Republican audiences may be mostly the result of the party's unruly contest and its incendiary front-runner, Donald Trump. But Democrats shouldn't take much comfort in this. While viewers may tune in for the mud wrestling, what they get is an effective political broadside.

The Democrats have a decent counter-argument that the GOP has been taken over by its far-right fringe, leaving Democrats as the  champions of the broad mainstream. But party bosses are apparently so worried that Clinton could be derailed or commit a gaffe in the debates that they are willing to stifle this message.

Their  most recent debate was held the Saturday before Christmas, when much of the public was out at holiday parties, doing last-minute  shopping, taking in the new Star Wars movie or watching the New York Jets defeat the Dallas Cowboys. The scheduling was so odd that a spokesman for Bernie Sanders could only quip: "I guess Christmas Eve was booked."

Democracy is boisterous, unruly and competitive. The Democrats understood this in 2008, the last election without a Democratic incumbent in the White House. They staged 26 debates in all, 17 of which had been held by this time. They ended up with one of the most substantive nomination contests in history, and Barack Obama was battle-hardened by the time he went up against John McCain in the fall.

This time they are going in the opposite direction, trying to limit debates when the public's interest in them is clearly on the rise. The ratings for Republican debates are shattering records. And even the Democratic numbers are impressive, considering what they are up against.

The Democratic Party should let its candidates define themselves often and to big audiences.  If they can't, the Republicans will gladly do it for them.