Obama order opens door for outsider; 
President slightly alters transition process for White House successor.

President Obama began preparing for a transition to the next president  -- leaving open the possibility that the next chief executive could be a third-party candidate.

In an executive order, Obama established a White House Transition Coordinating Council. Its job: to help eligible candidates prepare for the presidency even before the November election.

That wording -- "eligible candidates" -- is a subtle change from the last transition in 2008, when President George W. Bush ordered that the executive branch coordinate  efforts with  "major party" candidates for president.

The order comes as some conservatives contemplate whether it's possible to mount a third-party campaign to rival the seemingly inevitable Republican nominee, Donald Trump.

The change is driven less by the state of partisan politics and more by the law. Congress required the president to get an earlier start on the transition, even before it  becomes clear who the candidates will be.

Under the Presidential Transitions Improvement Act, which Obama signed into law in March, the president must establish a transition plan no later than six months before the election and provide services to the transition teams of presidential candidates. Those services are available to  major-party candidates and "any other candidate who has been determined by the administrator to be among the principal contenders for the general election to such offices."

The administrator is Denise Turner Roth,  head of the General Services Administration, which coordinates the transition.  She has not made a decision on whether any third-party candidates would be eligible, and there's little precedent to guide the decision. GSA spokeswoman Ashley Nash-Hahn noted that it's only the second election in which the agency has had to coordinate with candidates.

Congress did lay out some guidelines for eligibility for transition services. The candidate must:

Meet the constitutional requirements for the office (that is, he or she is at least 35 years old and a natural born citizen).

Appear on the ballot in enough states to have a chance at receiving a majority of votes in the electoral college.

Do well enough in polls to "be realistically considered among the principal contenders" for president.

Be recognized by other organizations as being among the principal contenders.

Candidates who meet that threshold -- and the nominees of the major parties -- are eligible for transition services.

Those include issue briefings, personnel management and security clearances for top campaign officials.