What went wrong for Chris Christie; 
Hurdles from years past proved to be insurmountable.

The problems that ultimately consumed Gov. Chris Christie's presidential campaign were planted long ago, one in each of the last four years, and were always going to be difficult to overcome.

In the end, escape proved impossible, particularly given the crowded field of establishment-friendly candidates backed by big-bucks super PACs with whom Christie was contending.

"At the end of the day, it just became a lot of people competing for that space of votes," said  Republican political consultant Chris Russell. "I actually think he may have peaked too soon in New Hampshire."

"It just was never meant to be," said Monmouth University political scientist Patrick Murray of Christie, who opted to suspend his campaign after a sixth-place finish in the New Hampshire primary.

Oct. 31, 2012 The Obama "hug."

Two days after superstorm Sandy ravaged New Jersey, President Obama toured the  devastation with Christie. They shook hands at the airport and Obama put his left hand on Christie's shoulder in what would come to be derisively known by some Republicans as a "hug" -- an image cemented by Christie's effusive praise of Obama's storm response and his unwillingness to campaign with GOP candidate Mitt Romney in the last week of the race.

"It's kind of ironic that probably his shining moment as governor, in terms of the handling of the immediate aftermath of Sandy, was really the root cause of why he was never able to get traction," Murray said.

Sept. 9, 2013 traffic problems.

This turning point is one nobody realized at the moment. A week of hours-long traffic jams on the lanes connecting local Fort Lee roads to the George Washington Bridge into Manhattan weren't well-known among the public until months later, when emails revealed the woes were intentionally inflicted by people appointed to their jobs by Christie to punish a mayor who didn't endorse Christie's re-election.

"Bridgegate just was too big a hurdle to overcome," said John Weingart, associate director of Rutgers University's Eagleton Institute of Politics.

Nov. 4, 2014 The one that got away.

The 2014 election was a triumphant one for Christie, even though he wasn't on the ballot. Christie chaired the Republican Governors Association, which despite having to defend more seats than the Democrats, held onto most of its territory while adding Democratic strongholds like Illinois and Massachusetts.

But  one place the RGA fell short was in New Hampshire, despite spending $3 million on the race. "He lost the only one that mattered," Murray said. "If Walt Havenstein had become governor of New Hampshire ... you can almost be assured that the entire party organization would have lined up behind Christie this time."

June 16, 2015 Trump joins the race.

Donald Trump, a perennial potential candidate for president,  descended an escalator at Trump Tower in New York to declare his candidacy for the White House.

By the time Christie entered the race two weeks later, Trump had stolen Christie's thunder and almost never gave it back.

"Donald Trump was able to out-Christie Chris Christie and really succeeded in capturing that very angry kind of telling-it-like-it-is voter," said Montclair State University political scientist Brigid Harrison.

According to the exit polls  in New Hampshire, 24% of Republican voters put a priority on choosing a candidate who would "tell it like it is" -- essentially the slogan for Christie's campaign; 66% of those voters opted for Trump, compared with 12% for Christie.

"They took his slogan and gave it to Trump," Hale said.