Orlando shootings temper LGBT Pride events.

LGBT Pride events here and in several other cities took a more somber tone Sunday as parades in those cities paused to remember the victims of the June 12 Orlando nightclub attack.

Orlando was not far from the thoughts of celebrants, with many marchers and spectators chanting "We are Orlando" and "Disarm hate." In New York, the chants were especially strong in front of the Stonewall Inn, which President Obama on Friday declared as the first national monument dedicated "to tell the story of the struggle for LGBT rights."

The site was raided by police in 1969, which resulted in an uprising that led to protests fighting discrimination against gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender people.

Record-breaking crowds in New York watched more than 400 organizations and thousands of individuals participate in the 46th annual NYC Pride March. The parade was led by Gov. Andrew Cuomo, and grand marshals included Syrian refugee and LGBTQ activist Subhi Nahas, transgender activist Cecilia Chung and teen transgender activist Jazz Jennings, at 15 the youngest marshal ever.

Presumptive Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton marched in the New York parade, CNN reported. Flanked by Secret Secret agents, Clinton stepped out of her motorcade near Stonewall and walked for four blocks.

The two-mile trek began at 36th Street and Fifth Avenue, but not before organizers paid tribute to the 49 people killed at Pulse, a gay Orlando nightclub, in the worst mass shooting in U.S. history. The names of all 49 were read, followed by a moment of silence.

Pulse owner Barbara Poma and Neema Bahrami, the club's entertainment manager, were honored with spots on the lead parade float.

This year's celebrations were dampened by not only Orlando but by reports of a possible attempt to attack the LA Pride event several weeks ago.

In Seattle, marchers honored the Orlando victims with white roses held aloft, KING-TV reported, while in Chicago the parade began with a moment of silence, the Chicago Sun-Times reported.

In downtown San Francisco, a group dressed in "We are Orlando" T-shirts marched in silence holding pictures of the 49 Pulse victims. Juan "Chico" Manriquez of Oakland carried one of the photos. "I pretty much cried the whole parade," he said.

The parade featured heavy security as hundreds of volunteers and security personnel dotted the route. For the first time in the parade's 46-year history, attendees had to pass through security checkpoints to get into the Civic Center.

Manny Gomez said seeing so many police officers at Pride was a welcome sight. He and his partner came to the events because they wanted to show that "they can't scare us back into the closet."

In Chicago, organizers added 160 security personnel along the parade route, up from 90 last year, the Sun-Times reported. An estimated 200 uniformed and plainclothes police officers were assigned to the parade.

The added security in San Francisco brought controversy as well, prompting Black Lives Matter, the organizational Grand Marshal for the parade, to withdraw from the event. Black Lives Matter issued a statement saying it took the action "because of the unsafe conditions created for our communities by law enforcement."

"For us, celebrating Pride this year meant choosing between the threat of homophobic and transphobic vigilante violence and the threat of police violence," the group said in a statement.

Contributing: Brittney Bennett and Greg Toppo, USA TODAY.