2016 teaches graduates the wrong lessons.

If there's one piece of advice this year's commencement speakers should impart, and graduates should heed, it's this: Be humble.

We're in the midst of an election cycle in which displays of bluster and personal dominance have become prerequisites for advancing in the polls. Likely Republican nominee Donald Trump has built his campaign around championing aggressive immigration and anti-terror tactics and scorning political correctness. Before dropping out, chief rival Ted Cruz responded with vitriol, promoting a "Stop Trump" movement that focused on defeating an opponent.

The contention on the left also has escalated. Sen. Bernie Sanders has cast former secretary of State Hillary Clinton as unqualified and accused her of making racist remarks by using the term "superpredator" in the 1990s. And the Clinton camp has lobbed misleading criticisms of Sanders, including Chelsea's critique of his health care platform and the candidate's own attempt to link Sanders to conservative activists David and Charles Koch.

This dynamic of heightened antagonism could impress upon the next wave of degree-earners that getting ahead post-graduation means shouting loudly, projecting bravado and demanding more. In fact, the opposite is true: Leading with civility and respect, embracing vulnerability,  and learning from failure are what genuine success is all about. That requires humility.

Celebrated graduation speeches of recent years have underscored humility as a key theme. I had the opportunity to see the late Fred Rogers of Mister Rogers' Neighborhood deliver a speech to Dartmouth College's graduating class of 2002.

In it, he talked about a group of eight Special Olympics athletes who turned around in the middle of a 100-yard dash to help up a contestant who had stumbled and fallen -- and then linked arms and walked as a group of nine across the finish line. It's a reminder, Rogers said, that "what matters in this life is more than winning for ourselves. What really matters is helping others win, too."

Yahoo News and former TV network anchor Katie Couric has promoted a self-effacing approach in several recent commencement speeches, advising Williams College graduates in 2007 to "become members of the two-H club: hard work and humility," and telling American University's class of 2014, "If you're too big for a small job, you're too small for a big one."

The rallying cry for humility is even more important in the age of Millennials, who last year replaced Baby Boomers as the nation's largest living generation. The group is known for its focus on personal fulfillment and individual accomplishment, enabled by saturation encouragement to pursue those twin goals.

Commencement season provides every campus the chance to leave a lasting impact on graduates by teaching them humility as their last, but perhaps most significant, college lesson. Let's hope -- especially this year -- that they embrace it.

James M. Danko is president of Butler University in Indianapolis.