GOP targets Clinton's foreign policy Achilles' heel.

Republican groups are moving to the next phase of their plan to take down Hillary Clinton.

After spending much of the year focused on her use of a private email server as secretary of State as a way of raising doubts about her ethics and honesty, outside GOP groups are pivoting to her record as the nation's top diplomat to call into question her leadership abilities.

The focus on national security and foreign policy following the Paris terrorist attacks and the San Bernardino, Calif., mass shooting has created a natural opening for Clinton to highlight her experience as secretary of State under President Obama. It also has brought a sense of urgency to GOP efforts to turn what's long been considered an asset into a liability, by highlighting what they say was Clinton's role in the president's failed policy approaches -- especially in Libya as it becomes a  haven for Islamic State militants.

America Rising PAC, an outside Republican group, is blasting out missives about Clinton's role in the U.S. intervention in Libya, Iraq, Syria and the release of Guantanamo Bay detainees. Other groups are also expected to spend millions on TV ads next year. American Crossroads is combing through digital archives and poll testing for spots that may begin next year, according to a Crossroads official who wasn't  authorized to speak publicly.

A newly formed super PAC called Future 45 ran its first round of ads in Iowa and New Hampshire using her comments before a special House Benghazi committee that "I was responsible for quite a bit" of Obama's foreign policy. "Her tenure of secretary of State is a vulnerability, not an asset," said Dan Conston, a senior adviser to the group.

Last Monday, Jeb Bush told an Iowa audience that the Islamic State is taking hold in Libya. "This is the place that Hillary Clinton, even in the debate in Las Vegas, said was an example of success in foreign policy, of smart power. Really?" Bush said. "Libya today is completely chaotic."

Polls show  voters trust Clinton more than any of the Republican candidates. Yet, much like 2004 Democratic nominee John Kerry found himself playing defense on national security issues despite extensive foreign policy credentials, Republicans are seizing  an opportunity to tarnish Clinton.

Democrats say Republicans are  looking for a new line of attack because  interest in her private email server has waned after her testimony before the House special Benghazi committee failed to produce any major  evidence that she played a role in denying additional security requests before  the 2012 fatal attack on the U.S. Consulate  in Libya.

What's more, many of their best arguments, like that Clinton advocated for a speedy Iraq withdrawal, are easily refuted, they say.

"It's classic Karl Rove: Hit your opponent where she's strong," said Heather Hurlburt, a former speechwriter to Secretary of State Madeline Albright, referring to President George W. Bush's former chief political strategist.

Republicans acknowledge that this portion of their strategy will be the hardest to execute because it will require significant investments in paid media to explain to make their case to voters.

Yet there is an opening.  Clinton is facing increased scrutiny over Obama's 2011 decision to, along with a large number of nations, intervene in Libya without a plan to fill the void  after the ouster of former leader Moammar Gadhafi.

U.S. plans to help rebuild Libya largely fell to the wayside amid growing violence and the 2012 terrorist attack. Obama  has called the ensuing chaos "a lesson I had to learn" about the need to manage new transitions to democracy.

Michael O'Hanlon, a foreign policy expert at the Brookings Institution, says Libya is the biggest trouble spot for Clinton. "I do think she's got to maybe rethink her argument right now," he said.

Yet Republicans have already spent a significant amount of time on Benghazi, which has fizzled, and they are circulating talking points on controversies that may be harder to sell.

For instance: That Clinton also misjudged Syrian President Bashar Assad, having referred to him as a "reformer." They are also focused on the administration's drawdown of troops in Iraq, which they say left a vacuum for terrorist activity to grow. They say Clinton advocated against leaving a residual force in 2011.

Republicans are also zeroing in on Clinton's decision against labeling Boko Haram, responsible for many more deaths than the Islamic State, a terrorist group -- a decision they say allowed terrorist activity to multiply.

Some accusations concerning high-level national security decisions made in the most private of meetings, are difficult to prove, while others aren't meaningful to the public, said Grant Green, a  national security official under Presidents  Reagan and George W. Bush.

"It's got to be something that the guy out in Omaha can understand," he said. Meantime "It's easy for her to go out and say 'I'm the only one with significant foreign policy experience,'" Green said.