Obama rips rhetoric over 'radical Islam'; 
He lashes out at GOP critics, including Trump, over partisan 'political distraction.'

President Obama passionately rebuked critics who say he should condemn terrorists as "radical Islamists," saying calling the Islamic State, also known as ISIL or ISIS, by another name will do nothing to defeat it -- and could be counterproductive.

"What exactly would using this label accomplish? What exactly would it change? Would it make ISIL less committed to kill Americans? Would it bring in more allies? Is there a military strategy that is served by this?" he said. "The answer is none of the above."

In animated off-the-cuff remarks after meeting with his National Security Council on Tuesday, Obama repeated his contention that identifying the Syrian-based terror group as Islamic will only serve as a propaganda tool for its extremist ideology, and potentially alienate Muslim allies. It was his sharpest and most extensive response to Republican criticism that his strategy is failing because he's failed to understand the religious fervor of terrorists.

"Is President Obama going to finally mention the words radical Islamic terrorism? If he doesn't he should immediately resign in disgrace!" the presumptive GOP presidential nominee, Donald Trump, tweeted Sunday after a lone-wolf attack on an Orlando nightclub.

Obama said: "There's no magic to the phrase 'radical Islam.' It's a political talking point. It's not a strategy.

"Calling a threat by a different name does not make it go away. This is a political distraction," Obama said. "Not once has an adviser of mine said, 'Man, if we use that phrase, we're going to turn this whole thing around.'."

Obama's remarks were directed broadly at Republican critics, including, he said, "politicians who tweet and appear on cable news shows."

White House spokesman Josh Earnest said Obama wasn't targeting just Trump.

"It's not uncommon to turn on cable television and see some Republican congressman I've never heard of talking about the president's non-use of the word 'radical Islamic extremism' to define our enemy," he said.

Republicans quickly accused the president of politicizing the Orlando tragedy. Dog Andres, a spokesman for House Speaker Paul Ryan, said, "Instead of reassuring Americans after a terrorist attack," Obama "opted for a political takedown."