Markets are never ready for the Fed; 
Expect economic issues to roar back in the presidential election.

Janet Yellen is 5-foot-3, but when she walks the two dozen steps from her chairman's office to the Federal Reserve's board room Wednesday to raise interest rates for the first time in almost a decade, her soft footsteps will ring financial market bells around the world.

Despite months -- even years -- preparing global investors for the smallest possible increase in money borrowing rates, markets are not prepared for the fallout. They never are. Plunging oil prices, a growing rout in corporate bonds, a surging dollar, all waves from the expectation of higher rates, are already crashing against market shores.  Now as the U.S. enters a presidential election year, our economy seemingly back on track, the markets are preparing for a different action. The Fed rate rise heralds not a gradual tap on the economic brakes, but a starting gun for an entirely new investment era.

Seven years of near-zero interest rates have provided investors a financial security blanket that is about to be ripped off in ways nobody is quite ready to contemplate.

New strategies.

The beginning of a period of rising rates in the U.S. will cause a shift in strategies from how to play emerging markets to currencies and commodities, even China. Big investors will seek to get out ahead of this.

It's entirely possible that the literal act of raising rates, after talking about it for so long, will cause a relief rally on Wall Street that will last through the end of the year, maybe even into January. Sell the rumor, buy the fact, as the old saw goes. But as the primaries begin in 2016, the  protection that low rates provided over any financial scares will be off.

Low oil prices, seen as a boon for drivers and a reason for the surge in car-buying, have also had a devastating impact on energy production companies. First on jobs, with more than 100,000 cuts and rising. And now, as the rate cycle turns, a big rise in the risk of defaults by debt-laden energy producers. Other corporate bond prices, which had benefited so much from low rates, are suddenly looking shaky as well.

The past three periods of rising rates going back to 1994 provide a mixed guide for stocks. In the long term, stock markets more than withstand the turn in a rate cycle. But short term, in the three or six months after a rate increase, the market is typically down. That doesn't mean we won't see some sort of wild relief rally Wednesday or Thursday, but it likely won't last long.

By far, the riskiest impact from raising rates will be in currency markets. In the past 12 months, the dollar has enjoyed one of its strongest gains since the 1980s. Yellen and her advisers will be watching the dollar closely, as its reaction will in some ways dictate how much leeway they have to continue raising rates. Economists predict between two and four more rate rises next year, depending on economic strength. The main issue will be that rising rates will support a stronger dollar at a time when central banks in Europe and Asia are cutting rates, weakening their currencies.

Turmoil on the way.

According to USA TODAY contributor and monetary historian David Marsh, U.S. and European interest rates have moved in opposite directions seven times since World War II. Each time, currency turmoil has resulted. Three times, it has led to a major disruption, such as the one that forced the United Kingdom out of the European Monetary System in 1992. "The message from 70 years of monetary history is that, in the next few months, there is a roughly 50% chance of large-scale foreign exchange upheaval," Marsh wrote recently.

In the presidential election, the economy will inevitably return to the forefront of political issues. That will potentially benefit Donald Trump, but also Hillary Clinton, Jeb Bush and, to some extent, candidates such as Marco Rubio and John Kasich, who show an understanding of economics. It will also bring Yellen,  into the election firestorm. In addition to the rate drama of the past several months, Yellen has been fighting a rear-guard action all year against the Republican-led Congress, which wants to limit Fed regulatory powers. Becoming the face of economic turmoil in 2016 will only raise the pressure at a time when she desperately needs to stick to her guns on the global financial stage.

It is well past time for the Fed to raise rates. Returning global markets to an era where central bankers can use monetary policy to help drive economies is a good thing. We've enjoyed an unprecedented period of stability since the 2007-09 financial crisis. A turn away from that will be a game-changer. Despite her soft-spoken, Brooklyn accent, Yellen is the most powerful woman in the world. We are about to witness a demonstration.

David Callaway is editor in chief of USA TODAY. His opinions are his own and are separate from those of the Editorial Board.