Teen girl pepper-sprayed in scuffle outside Wisconsin Trump rally.

As GOP front-runner Donald Trump prepared to speak to supporters in Wisconsin on Tuesday, a 15-year-old girl outside the venue was pepper-sprayed by another bystander, police said.

Police said the girl was peppered-sprayed in the crowd by a non-law enforcement person. Hundreds of anti-Trump protesters and supporters had gathered outside the Holiday Inn Express in southern Wisconsin, where Trump was holding his maiden rally in the state ahead of next Tuesday's primary in the state. In video posted on social media of the scene, the young woman appears to be arguing with someone and appears to shove or punch at the person before the pepper spray was deployed.

A day earlier, six protesters were arrested on charges of disorderly conduct, obstructing an officer and trespass after refusing to leave the lobby of the Holiday Inn Express as part of another anti-Trump protest at the venue, police said.

Police said the protesters identified themselves as belonging to the group Showing Up for Racial Injustice. Members of the group had locked themselves together inside of PVC piping before occupying the lobby area. About 60 other protesters who had entered the lobby left the hotel at the request of police.

Trump has faced criticism from rivals that the tenor of his campaign has created an unsafe environment at his rallies.

Earlier this month, Trump abruptly canceled an event in Chicago out of safety concerns after hundreds of protesters filled the arena where he was scheduled to speak. In another incident this month, a 78-year-old man was charged with assault and disorderly conduct after he sucker-punched a protester during a rally in Fayetteville, N.C.

Inside the hotel conference center, Trump on Tuesday dismissed Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker as an ineffective leader, arguing that the Badger State governor has been a poor steward of the state's economy.

Trump went after Walker hours after the Wisconsin governor threw his support behind Sen. Ted Cruz for the GOP presidential nomination.

"By the summer of 2015, Wisconsin was facing a $2.2 billion, two-year budget deficit," Trump said. "That's terrible. ... Twenty thousand fewer people in Wisconsin's labor force than seven years ago even though the population has grown by 100,000."

Polls show that the race for Wisconsin is tight, and a win for Cruz would go a long way in complicating Trump's hopes to win the nomination outright before the party's national convention in Cleveland this summer.

Gov. John Kasich is polling a distant third.