Insurgent tops institution in Sanders success; 
Clinton looks ahead to contests that are more delegate-heavy.

Bernie Sanders won New Hampshire's Democratic primary Tuesday, defeating Hillary Clinton in the state that helped revive her presidential campaign eight years earlier.

The Vermont senator aimed to win by a large enough margin to buffer his campaign before contests in Southern states more friendly to Clinton.

Despite polls showing her well behind, Clinton campaigned vigorously in the state that she won in 2008 and that made her husband, Bill, the "comeback kid" in 1992 after he battled back to finish a closer-than-expected second to former senator Paul Tsongas from neighboring Massachusetts.

"Let me take this opportunity to thank the thousands of volunteers in the Granite State who worked so hard" for the victory, Sanders said. He said the results were a win for ordinary voters and "not a handful of wealthy campaign contributors."

Clinton, who called Sanders shortly after the winner was declared, told her supporters, "I still love New Hampshire, and I always will."

Though Sanders held double-digit leads over Clinton in Granite State surveys, she had hoped an aggressive push by an army of grass-roots volunteers and local politicians, such as New Hampshire Sen. Jeanne Shaheen, along with the star power of her husband, a former president, would bring her within single digits of Sanders.

Sanders' win in New Hampshire, which was projected by networks and the Associated Press immediately after polls closed, comes a little more than one week after Clinton narrowly defeated him in the Iowa caucuses.

In a memo released as polls closed Tuesday, Clinton campaign manager Robby Mook acknowledged the former secretary of State and Sanders had split the first two contests, which is an outcome, he said, "we've long anticipated."

He attempted to shift the focus to upcoming contests in Nevada and South Carolina and a host of states that will vote March 1.

The first four states that vote represent only 4% of the delegates needed to secure the nomination, while the March states account for more than half of the delegates and "better reflect the true diversity of the Democratic Party and the nation," Mook wrote.

Sanders' win marks something that hasn't happened in the New Hampshire Democratic primary since Gary Hart beat Walter Mondale in 1984 -- an insurgent defeating a party favorite backed by significant institutional support, said Dante Scala, a political science professor at the University of New Hampshire.

"He should get due credit for that," Scala said before the primary. "New Hampshire often flirts with the insurgent and then comes back home."

If Sanders ultimately wins by 10 points or more, it means he succeeded in broadening his appeal beyond the state's traditional independent voters to win over blue-collar, moderate Democrats.

That's a constituency that could help him in contests in the South and the industrial Midwest. CNN exit poll data revealed deep anxiety over the nation's economy. About four out of 10 voters said life for the next generation would be worse than life today, while nine in 10 said they thought the economy favors the wealthy.

Tuesday's outcome is unlikely to provide much clarity in a race that could stretch well into the spring.

"New Hampshire doesn't answer the $64,000 question, which is how Sanders will play with minorities," Scala said.