How each candidate could play the battle for New York.

As Democrats and Republicans turn their attention to the critical primary in New York in two weeks, it is worth remembering that the state is defined by the Big Apple (New York City) and big apple -- a vast agricultural economy that is second in the nation in apple production.

The  diversity the state offers is fertile ground for  the remaining candidates to try to harvest delegates.  USA TODAY's Paul Singer takes a look at where each may thrive:

Hillary Clinton.

Clinton was the U.S. senator from New York. New York City is Clinton's base, she has deep ties on Wall Street and her presidential campaign is headquartered in Brooklyn. She has generally beaten Sanders handily among non-white primary voters, which describes large swaths of the population of not only New York City but also Buffalo, Rochester and other large population centers in the state.

Bernie Sanders.

Sanders has done very well in college towns around the country, and New York has several key ones, including Syracuse and "the people's republic of Ithaca," home to both Ithaca College and Cornell University. New York City also has a large Jewish population who may find Sanders compelling as he would be the nation's first Jewish president.

Donald Trump.

Trump is a New Yorker in ways even  Clinton can't match, which is a huge advantage but could also be a disadvantage. Local Republicans are  more familiar than most with his over-the-top public persona. Trump seems to be the classic New York City personality,  but he has proved popular in the state's northern regions as well. The first member of Congress to endorse him was GOP Rep. Chris Collins, who represents Buffalo suburbs.

Ted Cruz.

Cruz has two advantages working in his favor. One is the momentum from his victory in Tuesday's Republican primary in Wisconsin. The other is a committed Stop Trump movement that  would mobilize every possible resource to block Trump. The problem for Cruz is that he is not a good ideological match for the state. Religious conservatives have been a solid base for him, but "New York has one of the smallest percentages of born-again Christians," said Jeff Smith, a professor at The New School.

John Kasich.

Gerry O'Brien, a GOP political consultant, notes that scoring 20% of the vote in a district is enough to qualify for a delegate in the state, which means Kasich "can do a lot of damage by cherry-picking" in Democratic strongholds. There may be only a few thousand Republican voters in some of those districts, and a well-organized targeting campaign could turn out enough of them to pick up a delegate or two.