Super PAC ad attack coming; 
Iowa, N.H. targeted for next two months.

A Republican advertising onslaught will hit the airwaves in Iowa and New Hampshire in the next two months, largely led by outside groups that already dominate political spending before next year's election.

About 70% of the candidate-focused ads reserved in December and January in the two states that lead off the GOP nomination battle come from super PACs or other candidate-aligned political groups that can raise unlimited sums, tallies by Kantar Media's Campaign Media Analysis Group and other trackers show.

In New Hampshire, more than $20 million of the roughly $27 million in TV and radio advertising planned for December and January comes from groups supporting individual candidates rather than their campaigns.

A super PAC aligned with Republican Jeb Bush accounts for about 40% of the planned GOP presidential advertising in the state over the next two months. It has spent about $12 million since early September in the Granite State,  according to media trackers.

Outside groups supporting New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie, Ohio Gov. John Kasich and Florida Sen. Marco Rubio also have spent heavily in the state.

"These super PACs have been setting the table for New Hampshire voters," in sharp contrast to previous elections when campaigns took on that function, says Dante Scala, a political scientist at the University of New Hampshire.

The lopsided spending by super PACs underscores their outsized role in a race that has seen candidates such as Bush stumble in the polls and fight to retain their fundraising edge. Bush drew $103 million to his super PAC during the first half of the year, but he has attracted far less money -- roughly $25 million over a six-month period -- to his campaign.

"Campaigns are having trouble raising money. Super PACs have the money. They don't have a choice" but to take the lead in advertising, says Evan Tracey, a Republican media consultant with National Media in Alexandria, Va.

That outside help comes at a steep price and pays for fewer ads.

Candidates qualify for lower-priced ads under federal law. Super PACs do not. Bush, for instance, is paying $75 to run a 30-second spot during the 4 p.m. local news on Des Moines' NBC affiliate WHO in early January, according to Federal Communications Commission records. His super PAC, Right to Rise, is paying $375 for a single, 30-second spot during the same time slot at the same station.

An increasing share of pro-Rubio messages are coming from his campaign as he rises in the polls and wins the support of big-name Republican donors, including hedge-fund founder and prolific fundraiser Paul Singer.

Billionaire  Donald Trump has dominated the race without investing in a single TV commercial.

"Advertising isn't doing for candidates what it has traditionally done," says Elizabeth Wilner, who tracks political ads for Kantar.