Nevada a 'newcomer' in Republican race; 
Residents cite jobs, safety from terrorism as top concerns.

Iowa, New Hampshire and South Carolina get more publicity, but it's a good bet that a fourth state will play a pivotal role in the 2016 Republican presidential race.

Nevada, the gambling capital of America, is staking its claim for major influence in 2016 as the GOP field gathers in Las Vegas on Tuesday night for their fifth debate.

The state will hold a stand-alone contest in February, though it's harder to lay odds on the caucuses Feb. 23 because so much will depend on what happens in the other early voting states that precede it on the calendar.

"It's also really hard to poll -- you don't know who's going to show up at the caucuses," said Eric Herzik, who chairs the political science department at the University of Nevada-Reno, citing another reason the state is difficult to predict.

Though Nevada could play a key role in the race, voters don't seem as engaged as those in other lead-in states. Michael Green, associate professor of history at the University of Nevada-Las Vegas, said places such as Iowa and New Hampshire "have more of a historical resonance," while "Nevada is more of a newcomer."

Not only are the caucuses more than two months away, no one knows what the field will look like when they roll around. Many of the 13 major Republican candidates figure to fall by the wayside after the other early contests.

The GOP candidates who survive won't have much time to get ready for Nevada. The Silver State caucuses will come three days after the South Carolina primary and three weeks and a day after the Iowa caucuses start the process Feb. 1.

Aside from the CNN advertising adorning The Venetian hotel and casino, the site of Tuesday's debate, there are few signs of a campaign along the neon Las Vegas Strip. From the Luxor pyramid to the faux New York City skyline, there seems to be more interest in slot machines and floor shows than presidential politics.

Gisela Grimm, 67, a retiree from Las Vegas, stood beside the CNN broadcast set outside The Venetian as she talked about issues affecting all Nevadans: the economy and national security.

"There are so many places closing, and people are losing their jobs," Grimm said. As revelers took gondola rides on the Vegas version of Venice's Grand Canal, Grimm talked about renewed fears of terrorism in the wake of attacks in Paris and San Bernardino, Calif.

"Safety," said Grimm, a Donald Trump supporter. "Safety for the whole country, everybody."

The recent terror attacks changed the Republican campaign since the last debate more than a month ago in Milwaukee. National security has raced to the top of the political agenda.

Though Trump still leads many Republican polls, the billionaire businessman faces a major challenger in Texas Sen. Ted Cruz.

Cruz, who leads Trump in polls out of Iowa, may be taking much of his new support from retired doctor Ben Carson, whose numbers have fallen in recent weeks. Florida Sen. Marco Rubio has also seen a rise in his standing. Rounding out the main debate stage will be former Florida governor Jeb Bush, businesswoman Carly Fiorina, Ohio Gov. John Kasich, Kentucky Sen. Rand Paul and New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie, who rejoins the main debate after being relegated to the undercard form last month in Milwaukee.

Nevada is far from being a solid red state -- Barack Obama carried it twice.

"Everybody's looking at Nevada," said Democratic Rep. Dina Titus. "We are a swing state. ... We're not taking anything for granted as Democrats."