Millennials agree in poll on transgender bathroom issue; 
Opinions among older people are more closely divided.

Millennials have reached a broad consensus on an issue that divides the nation: By nearly 2-1, they say transgender individuals should be able to use public bathrooms designated for the gender they identify with, not the sex they were born.

A new USA TODAY/Rock the Vote survey of those 18 to 35 years old shows a 62%-32% divide on the issue, and the intensity of opinion is on one side: 34% strongly agree they should be able to use the bathroom of the gender they identify with; 17% strongly disagree.

"We have bigger problems in life than focusing on somebody's gender," says Gloria Garcia, 34, a nurse from Brownsville, Texas, who was among those polled in a follow-up interview. She says people should be able to use the bathroom they prefer. "It is their life; they are not hurting anybody, and we should be focusing more on what is actually more important, like terrorism and drug trafficking."

Franson Reneus, 18,  from Lee County, Fla., disagrees. "I could say I identify as anything and doesn't mean that I am it, and that is seriously crossing the line of what is real or is not," he says. "I feel like in some years, an idiot will categorize as a spoon, and we will have to accept it because he feels like it."

Opinion among older Americans is much more closely split. In April, a Reuters/Ipsos poll found by  43%-41%, the public overall says transgender individuals should use the public bathroom of the gender they were born. Those over 60 say they feel that way by 2-1.

On this as on other social issues, the rising generation tends to hold liberal views: 53% describe themselves as liberal on social issues; 26% say they are conservative.

That's in contrast to other concerns. On foreign policy, the divide is much closer: 37% liberal to 32% conservative. On economic issues, 42% say they are liberal, 34% conservative.

There are partisan differences on the bathroom issue. Supporters of Republican Donald Trump for president say by 55%-41% that transgenders should use the bathroom of the gender they were born. By a much wider margin, supporters of Democrat Hillary Clinton say they should use the bathroom of the gender they identify with, 76%-21%.

The battle over bathroom use continues in the courts. Guidelines recently issued by the Obama administration, telling schools to let students use the bathroom of the gender they identify with, have sparked legal challenges. Friday, Texas, leading a coalition of 13 states, asked a federal judge to block the rules in time for this school year.