Clinton still faces a spoiler in Green Party's Jill Stein; 
Some miffed Sanders supporters threaten to cast protest votes.

With rival Bernie Sanders vanquished, Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton faces new competition as she tries to win over some of the most passionate backers of the Vermont senator's campaign: Green Party candidate Jill Stein.

Hundreds of pro-Sanders demonstrators marched through Center City on the first day of the Democratic National Convention on Monday, chanting "Bernie or Jill, No Hill," raising fresh questions about whether Clinton will face a bleed of Sanders' most devoted backers if they bail on the Democratic Party and back the presumptive Green Party nominee. Hundreds more showed up to hear Stein address demonstrators at FDR Park near the Wells Fargo Center, where this week's Democratic convention is being held. Stein has framed herself as the Plan B for the "Bernie or Bust" crowd.

In her address at the Monday evening rally, Stein, a physician from Massachusetts and longtime Green Party activist, accused the Democratic National Committee of sabotaging the Sanders campaign, a reference to thousands of emails leaked last week that showed senior members at the committee sought to undercut Sanders' campaign. One official even suggested raising questions about whether Sanders, who is Jewish, was in fact an atheist.

The release of the emails by Wikileaks led DNC chairwoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz to announce her resignation from her post on the eve of the convention's start, casting a dark cloud over Clinton in her efforts to unify the party following her tough nomination battle with Sanders.

"We are leaving behind the corruption, the backstabbing and the lies," Stein told the protesters. "They have said they said bad things about Bernie and have apologized. They have said much more than bad things. They sabotaged a revolutionary campaign."

Stein won just 470,000 votes nationally as the Green Party's 2012 presidential nominee. But many diehard Sanders supporters who came to Philadelphia to protest this week's convention say they'll shift their support to Stein unless Sanders disavows the endorsement he gave Clinton after it became clear he would fall short of winning the Democratic nomination.

In Philadelphia on Monday, Sanders again reiterated that the party must support Clinton in November to defeat Republican nominee Donald Trump, who he blasted as a "bully and demagogue" who made bigotry the cornerstone of his campaign.

But on the streets of Philadelphia, where thousands of self-described "Berners" have descended this week to express their frustration with the Democratic Party, the idea of throwing their support to Clinton is a non-starter.

Some in the "Bernie or Bust" crowd suggest the idea of a Hillary Clinton presidency is as unpalatable -- perhaps even more so -- than the idea of a Donald Trump presidency.

Contributing: Grant Miller.