Trump lead causes more cracks in Republican Party.

LETTERS.

In a rare moment of solidarity, I stand with Mitt Romney ("Romney blasts Trump as a 'fraud' Clinton would beat," USATODAY.com, Thursday).

Also after great thought, I  would like to respectfully announce my departure from the Republican Party. I cannot see any future for this party with Donald Trump as the potential leader. I'm aghast that the Republican leadership hasn't done something about this elephant in the room who is bringing down the tenets of the party with crude and unthinking behaviors.  Romney is spot on with his assessment of the Trump vs. Clinton election.

The Hillary Clinton campaign must relish every moment Trump opens his mouth. His ideas, while energetic, are impractical and foolish. The things he wants to accomplish appeal to the people, but he has no clear vision of how to get things done.

He's a puppet saying exactly what people want to hear, but should he actually win, very little of his rhetoric will come to fruition.

Debby James.

Mission Viejo, Calif.

It's clear that the Republican insiders do not understand what is happening in America with the unprecedented success of Trump. Someone called it a "quiet revolution," and I agree.

In my personal opinion, politicians need only to look in the mirror to see why the American public is so incredibly outraged. Generous health care and  retirement programs, vacations disguised as "fact-finding trips" and a torrent of lobbyist and special interest money are dumped on them regularly.  In exchange for living like kings and queens on our dime, we get gridlock, stalling, waffling, inaction and long recesses.

Guess what, Washington! The people finally recognize that the king has no clothes and it's payback time.

Oh, and let's not forget term limits that hopefully are coming down the road.

Bruce R. Gary.

Rhinelander, Wis.

TWITTER.

We asked our followers which candidate won Thursday's GOP debate.

Ted Cruz 1, John Kasich 2, Marco Rubio 3 and Donald Trump last.

@trialattorney12.

Kasich. He has the experience and is mature enough not to get drawn into the mud. He is a president.

@antnyj.

The winner is Hillary Clinton. The losers? The Republican Party. Outside of their bubble, the candidates are seen as a circus.

@SujOfficial.

In an election in which the alpha male is desirable, hands down the debate goes to @realDonaldTrump.

@realJoeMurray.

Marco came in last, Kasich next to bottom, then a tie with Trump and Cruz.

@johnghadley.

Follow @USATOpinion or #tellusatoday.