Maybe Trump hasn't rewritten rules; 
Tough three-way fight puts political neophyte to the test.

Maybe the traditional rules of politics still do apply.

Texas Sen. Ted Cruz managed to derail, at least temporarily, the phenomenon that has dominated the Republican presidential campaign so far, defeating Donald Trump in the opening Iowa caucuses Monday. The billionaire businessman only narrowly edged out Florida Sen. Marco Rubio.

What seemed to be becoming a Trump romp to the nomination suddenly became instead a fierce three-way battle that will test the political neophyte -- who routinely ridicules losers -- and guarantee an extended contest for the GOP nomination. Cruz's superior organization and more conventional political strategy bested the outsider candidate who had generated more enthusiasm and energy at town hall meetings and rallies.

The Texas senator succeeded with appeals to Iowa's evangelical Christians and attacks on Trump as something other than a reliable conservative. What's more, Trump's decision to skip last week's final Republican debate, complaining about being ill-treated by the Fox News sponsors, may have cost him.

The Democratic caucuses were closely divided between former secretary of State Hillary Clinton and Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders.

"Trump's showing raises questions about how he will handle defeat and whether he can broaden his appeal in a party where ideology is more important that personal charisma," says Stu Rothenberg of the non-partisan Rothenberg-Gonzales Political Report. "Cruz's victory should give him momentum, establishing him as the conservative alternative to Trump."

Rubio hoped to emerge as the mainstream alternative to Trump and Cruz, both of whom are viewed with suspicion and worse by the Republican establishment. "If you don't want Ted Cruz or Donald Trump as the nominee, you better get on board with Marco Rubio," spokesman Alex Conant said happily on MSNBC as returns came in.

That could be sobering news for such rivals as New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie, Ohio Gov. John Kasich and former Florida governor Jeb Bush.

Just about everybody now heads to New Hampshire, which holds the first-in-the-nation primary next week. Sanders and Trump have double-digit leads in statewide polls there, although history says there can be major upheavals in the wake of the Iowa outcome.

Everybody except former Arkansas governor Mike Huckabee, a Republican, and former Maryland governor Martin O'Malley, a Democrat. Both were suspending their campaigns last night after drawing negligible support in the caucuses.

To be sure, the Iowa caucuses are only the start of the presidential season, not the end. Even a decisive win doesn't settle the race. The last two Republican winners, Huckabee in 2008 and former Pennsylvania senator Rick Santorum in 2012, didn't end up as the nominee.

But Cruz is in a better position to capitalize on his momentum from Iowa than either Huckabee or Santorum were. Cruz's campaign on Monday reported having almost $19 million in the bank, and he has organized extensively not only in the opening states but also in the Southern primaries that follow in March.

With a defiant message and a minimum of policy details, Trump had attracted support not only from Republican regulars but also from voters who hadn't participated in the caucuses or been particularly engaged in politics before -- many of them working-class whites who feel squeezed financially and ignored by the nation's political leaders. The question was whether the folks who flooded his rallies and bought his campaign hats would show up at the caucuses.

"Everything we're doing is wrong," Trump told a caucus meeting being held in a Catholic church in West Des Moines. "We're in trouble, but we're going to turn it around. We're going to make America great again."