Drama doesn't slow partying.

On the opening night of the Republican National Convention here, lawmakers, delegates and other power brokers slurped oysters, downed Patron-infused mango margaritas and listened to a swing band under the barrel-vaulted ceiling of the city's historic courthouse -- courtesy of the Distilled Spirits Council.

On the convention's closing day, a small cluster of convention-goers dipped marshmallows, strawberries and pretzels into a continuously flowing chocolate fountain at The Chocolate Bar -- courtesy of the National School Boards Association's political arm.

Inside the Quicken Loans Arena, controversy dogged Donald Trump's convention.

But outside the hall, Republicans carried on as usual.

Former House speaker and Ohioan John Boehner headlined a "Sky High" reception on Sunday night, so named because it was held on the 49th floor of Cleveland's Key Tower.

Power brokers in Cleveland also could enjoy brunch and mimosas with Glamour and Facebook; cocktails with reality TV star and Donald Trump surrogate Omarosa Manigault; a Third Eye Blind concert at Cleveland's iconic Rock and Roll Hall of Fame; and a build-your-own-paella reception at the Cleveland Public Library, hosted by Michigan Gov. Rick Snyder.

The Rock and Roll Hall alone opened its doors to some 40  events, according to  spokesman Todd Mesek. The museum also waived its $23.50 admission fee during the convention, a perk underwritten by AT&T.

"Perpetual motion!" Rep. Glenn Thompson, R-Pa., said of the swirl of convention activities.

Thompson started Thursday listening to the vice presidential nominee, Indiana Gov. Mike Pence, speak at a breakfast before hitting a Rural Electric Cooperative Association gathering and then joining the Republican National Committee for a "unity" lunch.

By 2:30 p.m., Thompson was talking public-school policy at the school board group's chocolate-themed gathering and still had hours more of speeches and receptions ahead.

"It's a marathon at a sprint rate," he said.

The school board event was a small, informal affair. Not so the liquor industry's quadrennial bash on Monday night.

The party, typically attended by hundreds of convention-goers every four years, "allows us to get our message out," said Frank Coleman, the group's senior vice president of public affairs.

Contributing: Todd Spangler.