Most oppose defunding Planned Parenthood; 
Poll precedes battle on Capitol Hill.

Americans overwhelmingly oppose cutting off federal funds for Planned Parenthood, a new USA TODAY/Suffolk University Poll finds, a debate that is likely to come to a head this week between the Republican-controlled Congress and the Democratic White House.

By 58%-33%, those surveyed  said the group's funding shouldn't be eliminated.

Both the House and Senate have approved amendments to the budget reconciliation bill that would defund Planned Parenthood. The House is likely to consider the Senate version of the measure this week and send it to the White House, where President Obama has promised to veto it. Another amendment would repeal the Affordable Care Act.

The findings underscore the political risks on the issue for Republican candidates, particularly for senators up for re-election next year in swing states, among them Kelly Ayotte of New Hampshire, Ron Johnson of Wisconsin and Pat Toomey of Pennsylvania. Sens. Mark Kirk of Illinois and Susan Collins of Maine were the only Republicans to vote against the final version of the bill.

In the presidential race, Democratic front-runner Hillary Clinton has denounced GOP efforts to defund the group, which provides contraception and health services for millions of women, as well as abortion services. The Republican senators running for president -- Ted Cruz of Texas, Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, Rand Paul of Kentucky and Marco Rubio of Florida -- all voted in favor of the provision.

While Democratic voters are united in supporting Planned Parenthood funding, 89%-6%, Republicans are more divided, although most oppose it, 59%-28%. A 54% majority of independents endorse continuing federal spending for the group.

Forty-six percent of people in the poll held heated political rhetoric partly responsible for a shooting at a Planned Parenthood clinic in Colorado Springs last month that killed three people. The alleged shooter, Robert Lewis Dear, is likely to appear in court Wednesday to hear prosecutors specify the charges against him. Law enforcement sources have said he said "no more baby parts" in comments to officials after the shooting.

DEFUNDING DEBATE.

Should federal funding for Planned Parenthood be eliminated?

No    58%.

Yes    33%.

Undecided   9%.

Poll of 1,000 likely voters taken Wednesday through Sunday. Margin of error +/- 3 percentage points.

Source USA TODAY/Su!olk University.