Syrians find a home in Clarkston, Ga.; 
For years, the Atlanta suburb has put out the welcome mat.

Hamid Salami and his family beamed as they took the stage at the Clarkston Community Center.

The seven family members from Dara'a in southern Syria have lived in this Atlanta suburb for three months, and though they speak barely a word of English, their smiles said a lot. After years of waiting, they are among the first 75 Syrian refugees to come to Georgia.

Gov. Nathan Deal has vowed to block other Syrian refugees from coming to the state. More than two dozen other governors have taken a similar stance, and Republican presidential front-runner Donald Trump called for a temporary ban on admitting Muslims to the USA because of concerns that terrorists might slip into the country.

But in Clarkston, refugees from Syria's brutal civil war -- and refugees fleeing violence anywhere else in the world, for that matter -- are embraced like family members.

"Thanks, Clarkston, for welcoming these refugees," said master of ceremonies Asab Al-Tabchi, a Syrian engineer who immigrated to Clarkston decades ago. "No thanks to Nathan Deal," he added.

"We're here to welcome these refugees and make them feel good because they lost everything in Syria," said Hala Agha, a second-generation Syrian-American resident who organized the event.

Clarkston has a 35-year history of welcoming refugees, Mayor Ted Terry noted. Every year, a new influx of refugees finds its way to the 1.4-square-mile city of about 13,000 residents, 18 miles east of downtown Atlanta.

"Right now, we get an average of about 3,000 a year," he said.

After the U.S. Refugee Act of 1980 established a process for admitting and resettling refugees, Clarkston emerged as a favorite location.

"Over the years, they just had better success in Clarkston, because it was a little more walkable, a little safer," Terry said.

After a while, a lot of refugees opened their own businesses to accommodate the newly resettled residents, who put down roots here or elsewhere in metropolitan Atlanta. The result is a community of broad ethnic diversity.

Luay Sami, 33, the community center's program coordinator, came to Clarkston from Iraq in 2011 after multiple interviews with the U.S. State Department over three years. Sami recalled how on his first trip from the airport, all he saw was a dark highway lined with trees. "And I was like, 'God, please, I want to see a city. ... How will I survive here?'"

Soon, he found the area welcoming. He got a car and a job at the  center, and Clarkston became his home. Recently, he said, he has realized that the rest of Georgia is not as hospitable.

"The stereotyping is unfortunately still strong here," he said. "They think every Arab person is Muslim, should be Muslims, and that all Muslims are terrorists.

"And they still believe that we use camels," he said with a grin. "I told them ... until I moved here, I'd never seen a camel -- only in the zoo."

Opponents of allowing Syrian refugees into the U.S. cite concerns that the region is rife with terrorists bent on attacking the United States. Recently, Herman Cain, the pizza maven and former Republican presidential candidate who hosts an Atlanta area radio show, was asked by a caller why young Syrian men are coming to the U.S. as refugees. "So they can be planted among us and hurt us," he said.

The State Department says  the  majority of Syrian refugees admitted are women and children, and all are carefully vetted.

These days, many residents worry about derogatory portrayals of Muslims during the political campaign cycle. Another complaint is that some  try to convert new arrivals to Christianity.

Jennifer Green, director of the Mommy and Me literacy program, said she  encourages participants in her program to share their cultural and religious ideas with classmates. "This is a way to do theology in a way that is multi-faith and welcoming," she said.