Absent Trump derides debate; 
Cruz fields most attacks from rivals in Fox forum.

Donald Trump threatened to run away from the Republican presidential field Thursday night in the final debate before Iowans kick off the 2016 voting Monday.

Literally.

A dozen Republicans who want to be president squared off, but a grumpy Trump -- angry at how Fox News has treated him -- stood by his plan to boycott the debate and sponsor a separate event benefiting veterans less than 3 miles away.

That left Sen. Ted Cruz of Texas center stage and fielding the most incoming attacks from his rivals for the GOP nomination -- so much so that he accused the debate moderators of asking too many "please attack Ted" questions.

"If you guys ask one more mean question, I may have to leave the stage," Cruz quipped in reference to the absent Trump.

Those most willing to attack him were Cruz's two Senate colleagues -- Sen. Marco Rubio of Florida, running third in most Iowa polls behind Trump and Cruz, and Sen. Rand Paul of Kentucky.

"Don't worry, I'm not leaving the stage no matter what you ask me," Rubio said.

With Trump speaking to a packed house at Drake University, the highlight of the main debate was a lengthy debate about illegal immigration between Cruz and Rubio -- both the sons of immigrants.

Both Cuban-Americans had to respond to videos showing that they supported some degree of legalization for illegal immigrants earlier in their careers. And both vowed to be tougher as president by focusing on stopping illegal immigrants before addressing the 12 million already here.

"This is the lie that Ted's campaign is built on," Rubio said: That Cruz is more conservative than everyone else. "Throughout this campaign, you've been willing to say or do anything to get votes," Rubio said. "Now you want to trump Trump on immigration."

Cruz said both he and Rubio promised as Senate candidates to lead the fight against amnesty for illegal immigrants -- but only he kept his promise, while Rubio sought a compromise plan endorsed by top Senate Democrats.

The debate between Cruz and Rubio grew so heated over who supported which Senate bill that New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie said, "I feel like I need a Washington-to-English converter."

Even off the stage, as he has done throughout the GOP primary campaign season, Trump dominated the news cycle, as well as his favorite social media venue, Twitter.

The boycott subsumed virtually all other story lines leading up to Thursday night's seventh Republican debate: Cruz's hopes of beating Trump in Iowa, Rubio's effort to finish a strong third and the race for respectability between the others taking the stage at the Iowa Events Center. Not to mention actual issues.

The other candidates at the prime-time debate -- former Florida governor Jeb Bush, Ohio Gov. John Kasich, retired neurosurgeon Ben Carson, Christie and Paul -- hoped to revive their candidacies heading into New Hampshire, where voters will go to the polls Feb. 9.

Four more bringing up the rear in the race debated earlier in the evening and used much of their time to criticize the media for ignoring them and counting them out: Former Hewlett-Packard CEO Carly Fiorina, former Arkansas governor Mike Huckabee, former Pennsylvania senator Rick Santorum and former Virginia governor Jim Gilmore.

The media are "manipulating and shaping and framing this campaign," Gilmore said. Fiorina, speaking to Iowans, said, "Last time I looked, you hadn't started voting yet."

The debate took place as a new poll showed Trump moving ahead of Cruz in Iowa, 32%-25%, while Rubio was at 18%. The NBC/Wall Street Journal poll gave the New York billionaire big leads in New Hampshire and South Carolina, which are next on the primary calendar.

"Trump is positioned to run the house in these first three states," said Lee Miringoff, director of the Marist College Institute for Public Opinion.

Trump's beef with Fox News initially was aimed at co-moderator Megyn Kelly, who he claims has been unfair to him.

Cruz, who has seen his  lead in Iowa polling evaporate, challenged Trump to a one-on-one debate before Monday's caucus. In an interview on Fox, Cruz said any candidate who wants to win Iowa "owes it to the men and women" of the state to answer questions.

Wolf reported from Washington.