Calif. win could help Sanders make case vs. Clinton; 
Underdog sees prospect to sway superdelegates.

Bernie Sanders calls it the "big enchilada."

California, the most delegate-rich state on the Democratic primary calendar, has recently become almost a second home for the Vermont senator as he barnstorms there ahead of Tuesday's primary. In May, Sanders' more than two dozen rallies in the state drew more than 160,000 people.

"By the time our campaign in California is over on Monday, we will have spoken to a quarter-of-a-million people in California, face to face," Sanders said Thursday at a news conference in Modesto. "It's a grass-roots campaign, it's going directly to the people, and I think that is why we stand an excellent chance to win it on Tuesday."

Even if that happens, Sanders would still be far from overtaking Hillary Clinton's commanding lead in pledged delegates and in superdelegates, the party leaders and elected officials who can vote for the candidate of their choice at the Democratic National Convention.

Counting her superdelegate support, Clinton is  71 delegates short of the magic number of 2,383 needed to clinch the nomination, according to the Associated Press. She undoubtedly will reach that number on Tuesday, when voters cast ballots in California (475 delegates) and five other states. After that, only the District of Columbia's June 14 primary will remain.

But a California victory would keep Sanders' campaign going and help him make his case to superdelegates that he's the best candidate to defeat presumptive GOP nominee Donald Trump. That would create a "summer of agony" for Clinton leading up to the convention, forcing her to fend off both Trump and Sanders, said Brad Bannon, a Democratic pollster and consultant.

Clinton leads Sanders in California by  about 6 points, according to a RealClearPolitics average of recent polls.

Sanders' focus on the state hasn't gone unnoticed by Clinton's campaign. Clinton changed her schedule to be in California on Thursday rather than in New Jersey, which also holds its primary Tuesday.

Clinton has a strong ground game and support from all major Democrats in the state, said Mindy Romero, director of the California Civic Engagement Project at the University of California, Davis, Center for Regional Change. On Tuesday, Gov. Jerry Brown endorsed her, citing her "long experience," "firm grasp of the issues" and preparedness.

But California has seen an unprecedented surge of newly registered voters -- 1.1 million between January and April -- driven largely by an easier online registration process launched in 2012, Romero said. Millennials age 18-34 comprise more than 53% of those voters.

"We think that these voters are particularly motivated, they're registering in big numbers, and because they're young, we know from polls that they're going to favor Bernie," she said. "He has to seal the deal and get them to actually turn out."