Did Donald Trump really scam students?

LETTERS.

Donald Trump has been a participant in 3,500 lawsuits in 30 years. Analysis shows that lawsuits are one of his primary negotiating tools. The attorney general of the state of New York is suing Trump for $40 million, claiming Trump University is a fraud. There are two other class action suits over his university. According to the recently court-released Trump University playbook, his salespersons were told, "You don't sell products, benefits or solutions. You sell feelings." Some students may have thought that, for $35,000, they might meet Trump, or even have him speak to them about the "fabulous" sales techniques that he has used, but what they had to eventually settle for was a 6-foot cardboard photo cutout of him (and they would stand in line to have their picture taken with it).

Trump claims he's worth $10 billion. Would a real billionaire be bilking old ladies and retired veterans out of their life savings? I claim Trump is not a billionaire and believe me, you will never see his federal income tax records.

Trump reminds me of Abraham Lincoln saying that "You can fool some of the people all of the time, and all of the people some of the time, but you can't fool all of the people all of the time."

Martin Litwak.

Olympia, Wash.

FACEBOOK.

Trump is such a con artist. It amazes me that more people can't see through the lies that come out with every breath he takes.

Ernie Helton.

Everyone can see this guy is a fraud except his followers. He knows this Trump University scam will hurt and expose him for what he is.

He flies up in his luxurious jet, with his name on the side, to tell everyone how tough it is to live here and that this is not a great country. They all cheer and he laughs, just like he did when many of them signed up for Trump University!

Mac Mittenz.

Some people signed up for a real estate class and overpaid for it. The people who spend 100 grand to get a degree at a normal college and then can't find a job, can they file a class action lawsuit against the college that promised a useful education?

Alex Melnyk.

Who in their right mind would have chosen a Trump college to go to? Every college that just started has all sorts of problems. That's not news. It's only news when you're running for president.

Oscar Mack.

Doesn't the federal government lure students into high-price courses with college loans that they will never be able to pay off? Throw in the fact that adequate jobs don't exist, so all of that federal government stuff is a scam, as well.

Don Grath.

The people who signed up for this obviously fake school are a very special kind of ignorant. Don't really feel too bad for people this ignorant losing their money. It should have been common sense that this school was fraudulent, and that it was run by a con man and manipulator.

Daniel Hamilton.