Trump's ISIL tone belies dovish history on war; 
From hands off, to 'bomb the hell' out of the extremists.

Donald Trump is promising to "bomb the hell" out of Islamic State terrorists, bring back waterboarding interrogations and deport Syrian refugees.

And GOP primary voters are lining up behind him.

However, the billionaire businessman's aggressive tone in recent days belies the more dovish approach to the use of military force that he's advocated in years past -- one that's less interventionist than most of his other rivals.

Trump's aversion to committing the U.S. to overseas conflicts goes beyond his opposition to the war in Iraq -- he's been an outspoken critic of ex-president George W. Bush -- to include the 2001 invasion of Afghanistan after 9/11.

Before the Paris terror attacks, Trump took a more hands-off approach to the Islamic State, suggesting the U.S. outsource the fight to Syria and Russia, was tepid about U.S. involvement in Ukraine and distinguished himself in the Republican field by saying he'd make nice with Vladimir Putin.

Trump's evolution on a number of issues, from his support for abortion rights and marijuana legalization, hasn't hurt him with his base voters. The question is whether the same will be true for his previously dovish posture on the use of force.

"He's Donald Trump, and he's in his own lane. It's not easily categorized as dove or hawk," said George Allen, a Republican and former Virginia governor and senator who flirted with a 2008 presidential run. Voters "think this guy's not going to be worried about breaking eggs," he said.

Trump campaign spokeswoman Hope Hicks did not respond to USA TODAY's request for comment.

As recently as an October CNN interview, Trump said he believes Afghanistan was "a terrible mistake," although he supports keeping troops there now. He later denied his opposition in a separate CNN interview.

In a September debate, while most of his competitors called for a bigger military effort to destroy the Islamic State, also known as ISIS or ISIL, Trump hewed more to President Obama's approach, noting that the Syrian leadership and ISIL are enemies. "Let them fight each other and pick up the remnants," he said.

After the Paris attacks, Trump released a new radio ad calling it "dangerous" that Obama "has no strategy to defeat ISIS."