Sanders' winning streak continues; 
Takes Wisconsin, but Clinton still has the math.

Bernie Sanders was projected as the winner of Wisconsin's Democratic primary Tuesday, with Fox News and NBC News calling the race for the Vermont senator less than a half-hour after polls closed.

Sanders entered the contest on a winning streak, but one that's hardly denting Hillary Clinton's delegate lead in the race for the Democratic presidential nomination. With his win in the Badger State, Sanders will have pocketed six of the past seven contests. His campaign manager, Jeff Weaver, says it's proof the candidate can still close the gap in pledged delegates, which stood at 263 entering Tuesday's primary, according to the Associated Press.

Weaver told CNN Tuesday that he believes the battle will continue until the party's nominating convention in July. Democratic strategists are more skeptical.

"He can assert it, but it seems extremely unlikely" that Sanders can catch Clinton, said Steve Elmendorf, deputy campaign manager for John Kerry's 2004 Democratic presidential campaign. "The numbers don't add up," said Elmendorf, who supports Clinton but is not working for her.

Democrats do not award delegates on a winner-take-all basis, making it difficult for underdogs to overcome large deficits. Sanders would have to win big primary states, such as New York and California, by large margins in order to catch Clinton.

While the Vermont senator won a number of smaller caucus states, including Washington and Alaska, Sanders has won only two primaries with more than 60% support: his home state of Vermont and neighboring New Hampshire. Polls show Clinton up by 10 points in the next major contest on the primary calendar: New York, which she represented for eight years in the U.S. Senate.

"Many would consider that an embarrassment for Hillary Clinton" if she didn't win by a margin larger than that, said David Wasserman, an elections analyst at the non-partisan Cook Political Report. "And yet it would seal the deal even more for Hillary Clinton" because she would expand her delegate lead, he said.

Whatever the outcome in Wisconsin and New York, which holds a primary on April 19, the forecast remains the same: The race is likely to wrap up in June, when California votes.

Sanders is burrowing in for a floor fight. He's suggesting that delegates from states he won should flip to his column, and his campaign is approaching delegates one-on-one to back the candidate.

As for the Clinton campaign, both the candidate and her staff are showing signs of irritation. On Monday night, Clinton campaign manager Robby Mook released a memo titled "The Facts on Where the Race Stands."

In it, he says Clinton has "built a nearly insurmountable lead among both delegates and actual voters." Since Clinton has 2.5 million more votes than Sanders, superdelegates who back him would be going against the will of the voters, Mook said.

In a Tuesday town hall in Brooklyn, Clinton took some shots at Sanders, particularly on his plan to provide free college tuition and his vote in 2005 to provide legal immunity for gun manufacturers.

Clinton is having to fight harder and longer than she'd planned to seal the nomination. Even as the race moves to New York, a state that she hoped to carry by a large margin, the race will be tight, said Dan Gerstein, director of Gotham Ghostwriters and an independent political analyst in New York City.

"It's going to be a continuation of the more global dynamic," Gerstein said. "She's going to win. It's going to be closer than it should be."