Political conventions race to close fundraising gaps; 
Deadline is fast approaching as each party committee works to raise more than $60 million.

Both the Republican and Democratic national political conventions remain short of their fundraising goals as organizers have grappled with calls for corporate boycotts of the Republican gathering and Democrats coped with a protracted nomination battle.

Each committee is working to raise more than $60 million.

The host committee for the Republican gathering in Cleveland has collected roughly $56.5 million, said David Gilbert, its president and CEO. That puts the committee about $7.5 million short of the $64 million it must collect for the event July 18-21.

The group raising money for the Democratic National Convention is $9 million to $10 million short, said former Pennsylvania governor Ed Rendell, who serves as chairman of the Philadelphia 2016 Host Committee. Rendell blamed several factors, including congressional budget cuts that eliminated $18million in federal grants to each convention and the rise of controversial billionaire Donald Trump as the Republican Party's presumptive nominee.

Some corporate donors, targeted by a boycott call from a civil rights advocacy group called Color of Change, opted to sit out the Republican convention or reduce their giving to both conventions. "You can understand that national companies want to be evenhanded," Rendell said.

The Democrats' convention is July 25-28.

Rashad Robinson, Color of Change's executive director, said his group will continue to press companies to boycott the Republican gathering to protest Trump's rhetoric about Mexican immigrants, Muslims and other groups. He noted that the party's previous standard-bearers -- Mitt Romney, Arizona Sen. John McCain and former president George W. Bush -- all plan to skip the event.

"If the last three Republican nominees don't want to get on that stage," Robinson said, "why would corporate brands want to align themselves with Trump?"

Monday, BuzzFeed announced it had pulled out of an advertising agreement with the Republican National Committee over Trump's harsh rhetoric.

In recent weeks, Hewlett Packard, Coca-Cola and Microsoft have either eliminated or reduced their financial support for the Republican National Convention. Microsoft is providing products and services to the convention but won't donate any cash to the Republican gathering. Coca-Cola indicated it would give $75,000 to the convention, down sharply from the more than $600,000 it contributed four years ago. HP is not giving money or technical support to either convention.

Gilbert said the boycott calls are unlikely to have a big effect on the group's bottom line. Fundraising was "stagnant for about a month or six weeks" as donors waited to see how a "turbulent election cycle" played out, he said.

"There's a sense of stability now," and donations began to pick up again last week, Gilbert said.

Early last month, Trump's  rivals dropped out after his decisive win in the Indiana primary, eliminating the chance of a floor fight at a contested GOP convention.

Now, it's Democrats who could face a battle at their gathering. Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders is pledging to take his campaign to the convention floor -- even as Democratic front-runner Hillary Clinton closed in on the 2,383 delegates needed to secure the nomination.

Organizers of both conventions insist they will meet their financial targets.

Fundraising for the Republican event has exceeded the pace set four years ago by the GOP convention planners in Tampa. In all, the Tampa host committee raised $57million, Federal Election Commission records show.

Democrats said they are in far better shape than the 2012 convention in Charlotte, where organizers fell short of fundraising goals and curtailed events. President Obama's ban on donations from corporations and federal lobbyists hampered convention fundraising four years ago. This year, Democrats have lifted that prohibition.

"We're meeting our benchmarks," said Anna Adams-Sarthou, a spokeswoman for the committee raising funds for the Democrats' event. "We have every expectation that Philadelphia will put on a very successful convention."