Our debates draw viewers, contrast.

This weekend's debate gave Democrats much to be proud of, with our candidates drawing clear differences while still showing respect for one another and for the American people. That's a big difference from the anger, bullying and insults of the Republican debates.

But while the substance is different, the logistics are  similar. We believe six debates for five original  candidates is comparable to the 11 debates scheduled for 17 original Republican candidates, with both parties setting similar sanction and exclusivity rules.

Both parties scheduled three broadcast network debates on NBC, CBS and ABC. Well, the GOP had  three before pulling out of an NBC/Telemundo debate,  their only debate with a Spanish-language media outlet.

The remaining GOP network debates are on Saturday nights -- just like ours. Broadcast television networks have less  flexibility than cable,  so putting together a  network debate takes a major  effort among the  party, the candidates, the network and the co-sponsors.

For those focused on ratings, it's worth pointing out that our first debate from Las Vegas broke the record for all Democratic primary debates with 15.8 million viewers. In fact, our  smallest audience this year was larger than 58 of 61  Democratic and Republican debates  in  the 2008 and 2012 cycles.

To be fair, the Republican debates this year have drawn larger audiences, in the same way that a crowd of onlookers will gather to gawk at a car crash. Donald Trump's extreme and xenophobic antics, with most of the field tripping over themselves to match or out-do him, is  good for ratings, but  bad for the Republican Party. With each episode, the Republicans show how ill-equipped they are to lead our nation.

We Democrats are engaged in serious, substantive conversations about moving our country forward. Beyond the debates, our candidates are also engaged in forums, town halls and other events that allow them to connect with voters and get their messages out.

Our candidates have made me so proud to be a Democrat, and I look forward to our debates and conversations about the issues that matter to the American people.

Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz, D-Fla., chairs the Democratic National Committee.