Republicans pile on Obama, Clinton; 
Time running short for some candidates.

The leading Republican candidates for president Thursday lashed out at President Obama and his would-be Democratic successor, Hillary Clinton, in a debate that threatened to make or break some of their campaigns.

As Donald Trump and Ted Cruz led the field before the Iowa caucuses Feb. 1, those trailing them heaped criticism on the president and his former secretary of State.

"Our friends no longer think we have their back, and our enemies no longer fear us," former Florida governor Jeb Bush said. If Clinton is elected, he said, "she might be going back and forth between the White House and the courthouse."

Sen. Marco Rubio said Clinton should be disqualified from the presidency because of her foreign policy forays.

Trump said, "Our country's a mess, and we can't let all these people come into our countries and break our borders."

All the Republicans seeking the White House raced into the first debate of 2016 in three groups -- those looking to win the early contests, finish strong or simply survive.

Trump and Cruz entered the debate in South Carolina atop the polls in Iowa, where voters will go to caucuses Feb. 1.

As such, they both were targets of attacks from struggling challengers who have only weeks to make their case or face political extinction.

Chasing Trump and Cruz was Rubio, who has rung up major endorsements from establishment Republicans even while being portrayed as a flip-flopper between the party's conservative and moderate blocs on issues, such as illegal immigration.

Joining Rubio in the group seeking a breakout performance were three moderates who have led big states: Bush and Govs. Chris Christie of New Jersey and John Kasich of Ohio. Within the next six weeks, only one is likely to survive.

The debate promised to be a crucial moment, too, for Ben Carson, the retired neurosurgeon making his first run for elective office. Carson's campaign has lagged amid a staff shake-up and troubles addressing complex policy issues.

The Fox Business Network debate set a new, higher bar for candidates to make the prime-time stage. Sen. Rand Paul of Kentucky and former Hewlett-Packard CEO Carly Fiorina were dropped for poor poll ratings.

Paul refused to join the earlier debate that included former Arkansas governor Mike Huckabee and former Pennsylvania senator Rick Santorum. "It isn't about viewership," Paul said on CNN. "It's about being designated as part of the people who aren't going to win. There is only one debate tonight, let's be honest about this."

Trump entered the debate with a growing lead in the latest NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll. He received the backing of 33% of national Republican primary voters to Cruz's 20%, followed by Rubio at 13% and Carson at 12%.

Christie and Bush tied for fifth at 5% in the poll, while no other GOP presidential candidate scored higher than 3%.

Entering the seven-man, prime-time debate, Cruz faced criticism for unreported loans to his 2012 Senate campaign in Texas.

Trump continued to question whether Cruz's birth in Canada makes him ineligible for the White House.

Cruz belittled the issue of the $1 million in loans, calling it a "paperwork error" that was reported in a "hit piece" by The New York Times. And he said he is just as much of a natural-born citizen as Sen. John McCain, a former nominee who was born in Panama.

Cruz, leading narrowly in Iowa polls and focusing most of his time there, questioned Trump's "New York values" and his readiness to be commander in chief.

They weren't the only candidates flinging personal attacks. Entering the debate, Rubio and Christie -- seeking breakout performances in the New Hampshire primary Feb. 9 -- faced increasing attacks from Bush and Kasich.

The debate came two days after Obama delivered his last State of the Union Address and as Clinton and Sen. Bernie Sanders of Vermont battled to replace him.