'THREE AMIGOS' TAKE ON DONALD TRUMP POLICIES AT SUMMIT IN OTTAWA; 
Presumptive GOP nominee overshadows agenda.

Donald Trump was not at the "Three Amigos" summit of North American leaders Wednesday, but his presence hung over the continental conference.

The leaders of the United States, Canada and Mexico took turns rebutting the Republican presidential candidate's proposals on trade and immigration. As they met in Ottawa, Trump was 340 miles away in Bangor, Maine, promising to build a wall at the Mexican border and get the United States out of the North American Free Trade Agreement that forms the basis of economic cooperation among the three countries.

In what he acknowledged as a news conference-ending "rant," President Obama took a whack at Trump's populist credentials, painting the billionaire real estate mogul as part of the global elite.

"Now somebody else who has never shown any regard for workers, who has never fought on behalf of social justice issues," Obama said, "they don't suddenly become a populist because they say something controversial in order to win votes. That's not the measure of populism. That's nativism or xenophobia or worse. Or it's just cynicism."

In a three-way news conference, reporters  asked questions about Trump to all three leaders, each of whom echoed a theme: Increased trade and integration is good for all three countries.

Mexican President Enrique PeÃ±a Nieto compared anti-global ideologies with that of 20th century dictators, and urged people not to "choose the road toward isolationism and destruction."

In the context of an international summit, the  three leaders were careful not to engage too directly in U.S. politics. Both Justin Trudeau and PeÃ±a Nieto gave diplomatic assurances that they would work with whomever U.S. voters elect. And even Obama tried to help them off the hook, noting that he'd demur too in their position.

"When I visit other countries, it's not my job to comment on candidates ... because they might end up winning," he said.