Trump campaign makes a Capital investment; 
Politics, business both will be on the front- runner's agenda in D.C. visit.

Republican front-runner Donald Trump, the self-proclaimed, consummate political outsider, is set to meet with the titans of the political establishment Monday when he arrives in Washington to hype his campaign and local business interests.

A series of meetings, including an afternoon press tour of the future Trump International Hotel, will be capped off by a speech to the powerful pro-Israel lobby group, the American Israel Public Affairs Committee conference. The conference is expected to host Trump's two Republican rivals -- Texas Sen. Ted Cruz and Ohio Gov. John Kasich -- along with Democratic front-runner Hillary Clinton. Sen. Bernie Sanders is scheduled to be in Arizona Monday.

Trump also is set to huddle privately with a mix of key Republican lawmakers and other party figures in an attempt to smooth relations. His campaign confirmed that Trump would be meeting with top Republican officials but would not offer details of the attendees or the agenda.

The real estate mogul declined to elaborate on his planned message to AIPAC or whether he would honor a previous pledge to remain neutral in the Israeli-Palestinian dispute so he could try to strike a peace deal. Trump's opponents said the U.S. should stand with Israel, not declare neutrality.

"I think making a deal would be in Israel's interests," Trump told ABC's This Week. "I'll tell you what, I don't know one Jewish person that doesn't want to have a deal, a good deal, a proper deal, but a really good deal," the candidate said.

Trump, however, declined to define what such a deal would include or how he intended to address the matter in his Monday speech.

"Well, I'll define that tomorrow," Trump told ABC. "I'm not going to define it now."

Not all conference attendees, however, are  eager to hear Trump's explanation and are planning a demonstration, different from those that have followed the candidate's rallies and appearances.

Rabbi Rick Jacobs, president of the Union for Reform Judaism which represents about 900 congregations, said he and other Jewish leaders are planning to skip  the speech to lead a study on "Jewish values."

"The values of our reform Jewish movement include equality, diversity, justice, humility and civility," Jacobs said. "Thus far, Mr. Trump has conducted his campaign as if those are not his values."