Clinton takes Pa., Md. and Del.; most delegates locked up; 
Sanders wins R.I., vows to press on to next primary.

Hillary Clinton was declared the winner in the Pennsylvania, Maryland and Delaware primaries by news organizations early Tuesday night as she looked to put the Democratic nomination mathematically out of reach for Sen. Bernie Sanders.

But Sanders was declared the winner in Rhode Island, and it is clear that he has no plan to get out of the race. Shortly after Clinton was declared the winner in Maryland, Sanders told a cheering crowd in West Virginia that he expects to win that state's May 10 primary and he is doing better against Donald Trump in general election polls than Clinton is.

"The reason that we are generating this enthusiasm is because we are doing something very unusual in contemporary American politics," Sanders said. "We are telling the truth."

Only Connecticut remained uncalled as votes were counted by 9:30 p.m.

The big question is whether Sanders continues to hammer Clinton as she attempts to pivot to a general election campaign.

Clinton acknowledged Sanders' success, saying she applauded him and his supporters for "challenging us to get unaccountable money" out of the political system. "There's much more than unites us than divides us," Clinton said to a raucous crowd in Philadelphia.

Clinton could have about 90% of the delegates needed to clinch the nomination after all the votes are counted Tuesday. Sanders himself acknowledged in an MSNBC forum Monday night "it will be very hard for us to win" if he continues to lose ground in the pledged delegate count.

Yet a new poll from USA TODAY/Suffolk University found 40% of Sanders' voters aren't sure they'll vote for Clinton, and Republican Donald Trump has been invoking him in lobbing attacks on her.

Following Sanders on MSNBC, Clinton seemed to implore Sanders to let up on his critiques by referencing her own role in rallying her supporters behind then-senator Barack Obama in 2008.

"I did not put down conditions. I did not say, you know what, if Sen. Obama does X, Y and Z, I will support Sen. Obama," she said. "I spent an enormous amount of time convincing my supporters to support Sen. Obama."

Still, Sanders, who sees himself as the father of a new political movement that's already pushed Clinton leftward on issues including trade agreements and the Keystone pipeline, doesn't appear ready to ease off.

As Clinton's victories rolled in, Sanders continued delivering an extended version of his stump speech to hitting all of his core issues.

Contributing: Nicholas Zazulia, Medill News Service.