Sanders will back Clinton, eventually, former rival says.

Bernie Sanders will throw his support behind Hillary Clinton before the Democratic Party's nominating convention, predicted Madeleine Kunin, the former Vermont Democratic governor challenged by Sanders 30 years ago.

Clinton is poised to shore up her formidable delegate lead over Sanders in Tuesday's Democratic primary contests in Connecticut, Delaware, Maryland, Pennsylvania and Rhode Island. The race between Clinton and Sanders has taken a more negative turn in recent weeks and that will take time to "cool off," Kunin said in an interview with USA TODAY.

"His normal demeanor is grumpy," she said, but despite the increasingly fractious tone, "I think he will do it," said Kunin, who has been critical of Sanders. "Now he's a national figure," said Kunin. "He claims to be a Democrat. If he wants to hold that stature, he's got to do it," she said.

Kunin was governor of Vermont from 1985 to 1991 and speaks from personal experience. Sanders challenged her when she ran for a second term in 1986.

Clinton is likely to cement her dominance and put the nomination further out of Sanders' reach on Tuesday.

There are 384 pledged delegates at stake, and the campaign believes it could have 90% of what it needs to clinch the nomination after the votes are counted. Right now, Clinton is 439 delegates short of the nomination when superdelegates -- party leaders and elected officials free to support anyone -- are included, according to the Associated Press.

While he's said he'll fight all the way to the convention, Sanders must decide what price he'll demand for his full support. He's already begun to indicate he'll make demands of Clinton. With the vast majority of members on the platform committee elected through each state's delegation selection process, Sanders supporters could exert influence over the Democratic Party's message that emerges from the Philadelphia convention.

On Saturday, his campaign sent out a fundraising email stressing the impact his bid has had on the front-runner's policy positions. "Our political revolution has already forced a former U.S. senator and secretary of State to change her mind on matters as critical as international trade, the Keystone Pipeline, and the federal minimum wage," read the email. "And with every vote and every victory, we grow stronger."

On Thursday, he hedged on whether he would strongly support her if nominated, telling MSNBC his involvement would depend upon what she includes in her convention platform.

"This will be a challenge" for Clinton, said Kunin. "She can never be as far left as Bernie," she said, recalling her own experience: "I'm not sure he damaged me, but he certainly took my attention away from where it should have been." Because of Clinton's lack of support from young voters, "she does need him," Kunin said of Sanders. "The great achievement is, he has gotten them out to vote."