London's Muslim mayor rebuffs Trump on 'exception' to ban; 
Spurns offer, blasts 'ignorant view of Islam.'

The British capital's new mayor on Tuesday rejected Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump's offer to make an "exception" to his call for a temporary ban on Muslims entering the United States by allowing Sadiq Khan.

Khan, a Muslim, was elected as mayor of London last week, the first person of his faith to undertake the role.

On Monday, Trump said he was "happy to see" that Khan was voted in, according to The New York Times. When asked about how his proposed ban would affect Khan, 45, Trump said: "There will always be exceptions," the Times reported.

"If he does a good job and frankly if he does a great job, that would be a terrific thing," Trump said in the newspaper.

Khan rejected Trump's offer Tuesday. "Donald Trump's ignorant view of Islam could make both our countries less safe -- it risks alienating mainstream Muslims around the world and plays into the hands of the extremists," Khan said in a statement.

He added: "This isn't just about me -- it's about my friends, my family and everyone who comes from a background similar to mine, anywhere in the world. Donald Trump and those around him think that Western liberal values are incompatible with mainstream Islam -- London has proved him wrong."

Trump called for the ban in December after Syed Rizwan Farook and his wife, Tashfeen Malik, killed 14 people in a mass shooting in San Bernardino, Calif. The Islamic State said the two were its followers.

In an interview with Time magazine, Khan said he would like to go to the United States to meet with American mayors.

"If Donald Trump becomes the president I'll be stopped from going there by virtue of my faith, which means I can't engage with American mayors and swap ideas," he said. He said he planned to visit the United States before January in case Trump wins the presidential race.

Khan on Tuesday stepped down as a member of Britain's Parliament for Tooting, the south London neighborhood where he was born, in order to be mayor full time.