Sanders lays off more than 200 campaign staffers; 
Win or not, candidate says, campaign aims to transform country.

The results of Tuesday's five Democratic presidential primaries will almost certainly force Sen. Bernie Sanders to acknowledge a hard reality -- it's time for Plan B.

Sanders hasn't said whether he has a strategy for changing the focus of his campaign, and he insisted at an Indiana rally Wednesday that he's still in the race against Hillary Clinton to win the nomination. But he laid off more than 200 staffers and began talking about what will happen "if we do not win."

He said he intends to win every delegate possible, so he'll have enough votes at the Democratic Party's national convention in July to put together "the strongest progressive agenda that any political party has ever seen."

"Our job, whether we win or whether we do not win, is to transform not only our country but the Democratic Party, to open the doors of the Democratic Party to working people and young people and senior citizens in a way that does not exist today," he told 2,267 people gathered at Purdue University.

Tuesday's contests -- Clinton won in Delaware, Connecticut, Maryland and Pennsylvania, while Sanders won Rhode Island -- gave Clinton a nearly insurmountable lead in pledged delegates, and she already was way ahead of Sanders in superdelegates, the unpledged party leaders and officials who may support the candidate of their choice at the convention. As of Wednesday, Clinton had 90% of the delegates needed to clinch the nomination.

Tad Devine, a top adviser to Sanders, said Monday that the Vermont senator will arrive at the convention with enough pledged delegates to file minority reports -- or dissents from the majority -- which could prolong the event by requiring debates on the issues most important to him. Democratic Party rules allow for minority reports at the request of 25% of members on the convention's Platform, Credentials and Rules committees.

Sanders has said he will work to prevent a Republican from becoming president. But he said he wants to see Clinton embrace some of his top priorities if she's the nominee. He said in a statement Tuesday night that he wants a party platform that calls for "a $15-an-hour minimum wage, an end to our disastrous trade policies, a Medicare-for-all health care system, breaking up Wall Street financial institutions, ending fracking in our country, making public colleges and universities tuition-free and passing a carbon tax so we can effectively address the planetary crisis of climate change."

The campaign hasn't decided what other issues it would raise at the convention or how it would raise them. Devine said areas where Sanders wants to see changes include:

Voter participation: Sanders, whose coalition includes young people and independents, said closed primaries -- those open only to registered Democrats -- deny many energized independents the right to vote and discourage them from joining the Democratic Party. On CNN Tuesday, his wife, Jane, called for an open primary process. "Shutting people out of the process when they're excited about politics is not smart," she said.

Superdelegates: Clinton is backed by 520 superdelegates compared with 39 who back Sanders, according to the Associated Press. Sanders supporters have launched petitions calling on superdelegates to back the will of voters at the convention. "The concern would be that we have a process that is eroding democracy. We want to have a process where voters decide," Devine said.

Campaign funding: The Sanders campaign wants to address concerns about the use of joint fundraising committees after recently accusing Clinton and the Democratic National Committee of violating fundraising laws. Sanders' team said the committee appears to skirt legal limits on donations by investing millions in online fundraising and advertising that solely benefit Clinton's campaign. Clinton and the DNC rejected the allegation.

After more than two decades in Congress as an independent, Sanders plans to remain a Democrat and would have registered as one if  Vermont had party registration, Devine said.