Trailing, Cruz lobs 'Hail Carly' pass.

This year's presidential primaries have featured many firsts: an impossibly large Republican field, a GOP front-runner with no experience in government and a socialist winning big swaths of the Democratic vote.

Wednesday added one more unusual development to the list: Sen. Ted Cruz of Texas, a candidate mathematically eliminated from winning the GOP nomination on the first ballot, naming businesswoman Carly Fiorina as his running mate.

Make no mistake, this is a Hail Mary (or perhaps a Hail Carly) pass. Cruz did it in part to take the limelight away from Donald Trump, who is edging closer to the nomination and dominating the news, thanks to his five-state romp Tuesday in the Northeast primaries.

It is also a strategic effort to win over female voters alienated by Trump in the 10 remaining primary states, starting with Indiana next Tuesday.

In picking Fiorina, the former CEO of Hewlett-Packard who ended her own bid for the nomination Feb. 10 after the New Hampshire primary, Cruz has a running mate who performed well in the early GOP debates and demonstrated a good grasp of world and domestic affairs.

The strategy behind the Cruz-Fiorina ticket is to win enough delegates to keep Trump shy of the 1,237 mark needed to claim the nomination on the first ballot at the Republican convention this summer in Cleveland, and then try to sway delegates to his side on subsequent ballots.

Such moves are long shots. Candidate Ronald Reagan tried a similar approach in 1976, when he trailed President Ford going into that year's convention. Reagan tapped Sen. Richard Schweiker of Pennsylvania in a bid to appeal to moderate delegates and to show what the full ticket would look like.

It didn't work. Ford won the nomination on the first ballot, though the Reagan-Schwieker alliance did eventually bear fruit. Reagan put Schweiker in his Cabinet after he was elected president four years later.

Will Cruz's gambit do any better? Probably not. Fiorina is hardly the kind of political star who will sway large numbers of voters.

But with the GOP contest well into the fourth quarter, Cruz has few other options and little to lose. Besides, in a year this wacky, his stunt doesn't really stand out as all that strange.