IN BRIEF.

Spain struggles to form post-election government.

Spain braced for weeks of political uncertainty Monday after voters ended decades of two-party dominance by electing a fragmented Parliament made up of multiple parties.

Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy's ruling conservative Popular Party took the most seats -- 123 -- in Sunday's election, but it still fell far short of the 176 majority needed to govern alone. That meant it will need to form a coalition government with one of the country's other political parties. It has no obvious partner for that.

Rajoy said Monday that he will "try to form a stable government" and insisted that his party was "still the No. 1 force in Spain."--Kim Hjelmgaard.

'Stoic' driver identified in horror on Las Vegas Strip.

The homeless woman accused of deliberately driving onto a packed sidewalk along the Las Vegas Strip told police she was stressed out by security guards chasing her from parking lots in which she had been trying to sleep, a police report indicates.

Lakeisha Holloway, 24, will be charged with murder with a deadly weapon and other charges related to the incident Sunday evening that left one person dead and dozens injured. "The videos obviously show intention," Clark County Sheriff Joe Lombardo said at a news conference Monday. The Clark County Coroner's Office identified the person killed as Jessica Valenzuela, 32, of Buckeye, Ariz.--John Bacon.

San Bernardino shooter's friend denied bail.

The man accused of purchasing two of the guns used in the San Bernardino shooting rampage will remain in custody as a criminal case against him proceeds, a federal judge ruled Monday.

U.S. District Magistrate Judge David Bristow said a conspiracy Marquez allegedly plotted with one of the shooters was enough to keep him in federal prison as his case is heard.

Marquez, 24, is accused of plotting at least two other assaults, in 2011 and 2012, with Sayed Farook that were not carried out. Farook and his wife, Tashfeen Malik, died in a shootout with police following the Dec. 2 attack that left 14 people dead and more than 20 wounded.--Kevin Johnson.

Also ...

Chelsea Clinton announced Monday on Twitter that she is pregnant with her second child, due  next summer. The daughter of Democratic presidential front-runner Hillary Clinton already has one child, 1-year old Charlotte Clinton Mezvinsky.