Some Republicans promote Sanders' candidacy, trying to embarrass Clinton.

Even as some polls show Sen. Bernie Sanders besting top GOP presidential candidates, Republicans appear to be salivating over the prospect of taking on the Democratic socialist in November's general election.

They're using Sanders' success in an attempt to embarrass Democratic front-runner Hillary Clinton.

Republican National Committee spokesman Sean Spicer -- as Clinton's campaign noted this week -- even promoted Sanders on Twitter as the winner of Democratic debates and has taunted the Clinton campaign for "getting schooled by a nutty VT socialist."

American Crossroads, a super PAC aligned with Republican strategist Karl Rove, released a digital ad in Iowa targeting Clinton's ties to Wall Street -- a tactic used by Sanders.

Sanders highlighted polls that show him performing as well or better than Clinton in a general election matchup against GOP candidates, including front-runner Donald Trump, Sen. Ted Cruz of Texas and Sen. Marco Rubio of Florida.

"If you want somebody who is going to beat Donald Trump, who is going to beat the other Republicans, I think Bernie Sanders is that candidate," Sanders said while campaigning in Iowa on Tuesday.

Sanders would beat Trump by more than 5percentage points compared with Clinton's 2.5-point edge over Trump, according to the most recent RealClearPolitics average of national polls.

Republicans don't seem to take Sanders' argument seriously.

Ohio Gov. John Kasich, a Republican presidential contender, predicted at the most recent GOP debate that Republicans will take "every state" if Sanders wins the Democratic nomination.

"That's not even an issue," he said to applause. "I know Bernie, and I can promise you he's not going to be president of the United States."

Trump has said a race against Sanders would be "a dream come true."

Clinton's campaign has responded to Sanders more aggressively as polls show Sanders surging in Iowa before the caucuses Feb. 1 and beating Clinton in New Hampshire, which will hold the first-in-the-nation primary Feb. 9.

Tuesday, Clinton Communication Director Jennifer Palmieri said Sanders' arguments that he's more electable are undermined by evidence Republicans would rather run against him than against Clinton. Palmieri accused Sanders of taking cues from Republicans and "using a Karl Rove attack to go after" Clinton.

"While Sen. Sanders tries to make a case on electability based on meaningless polls, Republicans and their super PACs have made clear (which) candidate they're actually afraid to face," Palmieri said in a statement. "Both Sanders and the Republicans know that Hillary is the candidate who can take them on and ensure the White House isn't in Donald Trump or Ted Cruz's hands."

Tad Devine, Sanders' senior media adviser, said Republicans are engaged in misguided "mischief" that shows their "disconnect with what's going on with voters."