Clinton extends her lead, despite a message that fails to scintillate; 
Clinton extends her lead, despite a message that fails to scintillate.

For someone who conceded in a recent debate that she's "not a natural politician," Hillary Clinton had a good night Tuesday, winning the key states of Florida, Ohio and North Carolina by margins big enough to add to her already considerable delegate lead over Bernie Sanders.

Regardless of the outcomes in Illinois and Missouri, which remained too inconclusive to call as this edition went to press, Clinton remained on track to win the nomination, while any realistic chance for Sanders to challenge her got even slimmer.

Clinton has been losing altitude since she started out more than 60 points ahead of Sanders in 2014. But she has never trailed the 74-year-old Vermont senator in national polling averages. And though he has turned out to be a galvanizing candidate, her comparatively plodding style has been durable enough to keep her in the lead.

She has done this despite a less-than-exciting message. Clinton's candidacy is essentially a call for more of the same, building on the policies of President Obama in health care, financial regulation and elsewhere. It's an agenda a President Clinton could actually hope to see work. It's prudent. It's realistic. But it's hardly compelling.

Elections are about aspirations and dreams, not just what's practical, and that's where Sanders has been political lightning to Clinton's lightning bug, at least with younger voters who feel trapped in a system that seems rigged against them.

Is health care still too expensive? Does college leave too many graduates with crushing debt? Are the Wall Street banks that caused the Great Recession still too big to fail? Is there too much big money in politics? It's hard to answer no to any of those questions.

The question is what to do, and in our judgment, most of Sanders' enticing prescriptions are wildly unrealistic. Nor is there much in Sanders' quarter-century in Congress to make anyone think he could actually get any of them done in today's Washington.

Clinton's greatest asset is her years of experience as a senator, secretary of State and an unusually active first lady. Yet history teaches that can cut both ways, especially when voters are looking for change.

Richard Nixon ran on the slogan "Experience Counts" in 1960 after eight years as vice president for President Eisenhower. And then he lost to the much less experienced John F. Kennedy.

Clinton's biggest edge this year might turn out to be who she isn't -- Donald Trump or Ted Cruz -- rather than who she is.