Five key trends to watch ahead of election.

The last time The Washington Post conducted a 50-state poll was in 1988, a year when Republican George H.W. Bush won 39 states and defeated Democrat Michael Dukakis. The nation's political geography has shifted in several important ways since that year, and this year's presidential contest could shake up states' political leanings again. Here are five key trends to watch across the states this year.

Coastal states swing toward Democrats.

Demographic and ideological shifts have pushed states on the east and west edges of the nation in Democrats' direction, helping the party recover from Republican presidential victories in the 1980s. Bush won Florida, New Hampshire and Virginia by at least 20 percentage points in 1988, and Barack Obama won all three by single digits in 2008 and 2012. Bush also won narrower victories in coastal states that have moved firmly into the Democratic column, including California, Maryland, Vermont, New Jersey and Delaware. Hillary Clinton leads Donald Trump by double digits in all five of these states, according to the new poll.

GOP still dominant in the Deep South?

Back in 1988, North Carolina, Georgia, Mississippi and Texas were firmly Republican. Now, according to the recent 50-state poll, some are swinging. Bush won North Carolina by double digits in 1988, then the state narrowly went for Obama in 2008, and in 2012 flipped back to Mitt Romney. Clinton and Trump are tied in the state today. The two candidates are also tied in Georgia, where Republicans have won the last five straight presidential contests. Texas and Mississippi have been loyal to Republicans since the 1980s, and Romney won them by double digits four years ago, but the 50-state poll suggests Clinton could be competitive in both states.

Rust Belt is key battleground.

The 50-state poll finds Trump faring better in the Rust Belt states of Indiana, Michigan, Ohio and Pennsylvania than in other battlegrounds, offering a glimpse of a potential route to victory. Back in 1988, Rust Belt states Indiana, Michigan, Ohio and Pennsylvania all supported Bush, but Democrats' strength grew in these states over the years, and Obama won all but Indiana in 2008. Trump leads by 15 points in Indiana, according to the 50-state poll, and has a small three-point lead in Ohio. Clinton has a four-point edge in Pennsylvania and a two-point edge in Michigan. She fares better in other recent polls in these states, and winning them would thwart one of Trump's most promising paths to victory.

Democrats benefit from Latino growth.

The nation's growing and geographically concentrated Hispanic population has boosted Democrats in several states over recent elections. California and New Mexico are now solidly Democratic, while Nevada's strong support for Reagan and Bush have turned to clear edges for Obama in the past two elections. Clinton and Trump are roughly even in Arizona, a state Republicans have won by healthy margins since 2000, and Florida's large and diverse Hispanic population has been a counterweight to Republican-leaning white voters.

Different shifts for heavily whites states.

Over 90 percent of registered voters in West Virginia and Iowa are white, but they've followed different political trajectories in recent decades. West Virginia used to be a fairly reliable Democratic state, supporting Dukakis by five points over Bush in 1988 as one of only 10 states he won. But since 2000, it's been a Republican standby in national presidential elections, following the track of Deep Southern states. Trump leads by 57 percent to 33 percent in the 50-state poll. By contrast, Iowa has shifted from a one of the most Democratic-leaning states in the country in 1988, when Dukakis won it by 10 points. The state was decided by less than one percentage point in 2000 and 2004, and while Obama won Iowa by a comfortable margin in the past two elections, Trump is faring better there this year. The new 50-state poll finds Trump up a narrow four points, while other recent surveys show Clinton with a narrow edge.

- Scott Clement.