Ruling solidifies candidates' abortion stances as a key factor in November.

Activists on both sides.

of the issue gear up for national, local elections.

Both sides of the debate over abortion rights agreed on one thing in the wake of Monday's Supreme Court ruling: Abortion will become an even larger issue in the November elections.

Abortion opponents said the decision, which struck down restrictions on Texas abortion clinics that other states have duplicated, illustrates the importance of electing a president who will appoint antiabortion justices to the Supreme Court. Supporters of abortion rights, on the other hand, argued that the ruling will galvanize efforts to keep abortion legal and fight laws that restrict it on the state and local level.

"This decision reinforces what we've been saying all along: that this is the most important election of our lifetimes," said Ilyse Hogue, president of NARAL Pro-Choice America. "Reproductive freedom very much is on the ballot this November."

Presumptive Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton has vowed to keep abortion legal and celebrated the ruling Monday.

"SCOTUS's decision is a victory for women in Texas and across America. Safe abortion should be a right - not just on paper, but in reality," Clinton tweeted shortly after the ruling.

Presumptive Republican nominee Donald Trump describes himself as antiabortion and has said that he would nominate Supreme Court justices who are opposed to abortion. But Trump, who has often struggled while talking about the issue, made no comment on the ruling Monday.

Once a proponent of abortion rights, Trump has since adopted the standard Republican position of wanting to overturn  Roe v. Wade , the 1973 decision that legalized abortion nationwide. In March, Trump said that if abortion were made illegal, women who go through with the procedure should be punished. He later walked back his remarks and said women who have abortions are victims.

While many social conservatives have expressed discomfort with Trump, many said Monday that the Texas ruling intensifies the need to get behind him in order to ensure favorable Supreme Court appointments.

"I think a lot of people today probably made up their mind about who they're going to vote for, especially people who have been on the fence not really wanting to vote for Donald Trump," said Kristan Hawkins, president of Students For Life of America. ". . . You're going to want to make sure that the next president appoints pro-life Supreme Court justices. We have a big opportunity."

Hawkins and others who want to ban abortion said Monday's decision will make the choice between Clinton and Trump even more stark.

"This is a rallying point for the pro-life movement," said Penny Nance, president and chief executive of Concerned Women for America. "It brings the importance of the issue of the Supreme Court into focus for people across the country who think the states should have the ability to at least set up common-sense regulations."

Nance said she would like Trump to further explain his stance on Planned Parenthood but supports his candidacy because there is "no question" he is "the most pro-life of the two."

In many ways, states have become as big a front in the abortion battle as the presidential election and the Supreme Court, and Monday's decision will reverberate down the ballot. Antiabortion advocates have been very successful in pushing restrictions on the state level: So far this year, 14 states passed at least 30 laws making it more difficult for women to get abortions, according to the Guttmacher Institute. It is the fifth straight year in which antiabortion activists have pushed through a large number of laws restricting the procedure.

South Carolina and South Dakota this year passed laws barring almost all abortions after 20 weeks' gestation. Louisiana and Kentucky lengthened the waiting period to get an abortion. The Oklahoma legislature passed a measure that would ban almost all abortions; Republican Gov. Mary Fallin, who opposes abortion, vetoed the bill because she said it was unconstitutional.

Joe Scheidler, national director of the Pro-Life Action League, said that he does not completely trust Trump but that Clinton cannot be elected because of her support for keeping abortion legal. Scheidler said he hopes abortion opponents who cannot bring themselves to vote for Trump still go to the polls and elect local representatives who want to restrict abortion.

Abortion rights advocates said the ruling has made it even more critical to fight these laws on a local basis.

"We now will take this fight state by state to challenge and repeal other laws across the country," said Cecile Richards, president of the Planned Parenthood Federation of America.

Hogue said abortion rights supporters have been "galvanized and mobilized" by the recent spate of antiabortion legislation and are ready to reject politicians who push such measures. "This is just the beginning," she said.

On the other side, Hawkins said her group will be working to place antiabortion officials at all levels of government.

"We want a pro-life majority on the Supreme Court; we want a pro-life majority all across the country, in the House, in the Senate, in local legislatures, on school boards," she said.
