Democratic candidates pivot sharply from GOP script on tackling terrorism.

MANCHESTER, N.H. - Four days after the Republicans raised a war cry in their debate in Las Vegas, the Democratic contenders on Saturday presented a very different view of how a president should handle the terrorism issue that is rattling the electorate.

Where the Republicans sought to outdo each other in saying how tough they would be, the Democrats stressed the need for a more pragmatic approach that would emphasize building international coalitions and preserving the nation's values of tolerance and inclusiveness.

"The first line of defense against radicalization is within the Muslim American community," said former secretary of state Hillary Clinton, who praised former Republican president George W. Bush for reaching out to Muslims when he was in the White House.

Clinton, the Democratic front-runner, was especially critical of the man who is leading the GOP race.

"I worry greatly that the rhetoric coming from the Republicans, particularly Donald Trump, is sending a message to Muslims here in the United States, and particularly around the world, that there is a clash of civilizations," she said, adding that such talk "fans the flames of radicalization."

"He is becoming ISIS's best recruiter," Clinton said of Trump, using another name for the Islamic State terrorist organization.

Trump has proposed temporarily banning Muslims from entering the United States and has gone so far as to justify the killing of the families of jihadists overseas.

Other GOP candidates have been nearly as bellicose. Sen. Ted Cruz (Tex.) has said that he would "carpet-bomb [the Islamic militants] into oblivion. I don't know if sand can glow in the dark, but we're going to find out."

Even as Clinton was criticizing Trump, however, she came under fire from Republicans over her assertion during the debate that "we now finally are where we need to be" in coming up with a strategy to confront the Islamic State.

Former Florida governor Jeb Bush tweeted: "No @HillaryClinton - We are not 'where we need to be' in fight against ISIS."

In many respects, the Democrats were more unified on national security than the GOP contenders had been. The Republicans had sparred over a range of issues, including immigration and surveillance - which represent the party's continuing efforts to find its way in the aftermath of the George W. Bush years.

However, Sen. Bernie Sanders (Vt.)  and former Maryland governor Martin O'Malley suggested that Clinton, the most hawkish candidate on their side, would be too ready to use force overseas.

All the Democrats insisted that international cooperation will be necessary not only to defeat terrorist organizations, but also to bring stability to the Middle East.

"I do not believe in unilateral American action. I believe in action in which we put together a strong coalition of forces, major powers and the Muslim nations," Sanders said. "I think one of the heroes in a real quagmire out there, in a dangerous and difficult world, one of the heroes who we should recognize in the Middle East, is King Abdullah II of Jordan. This small country has welcomed in many refugees."

Homegrown terrorism has turned into a leading issue in both races after an American Muslim and his Pakistani wife carried out a mass shooting Dec. 2 in San Bernardino, Calif., killing 14 people. The subsequent investigation has revealed that he had been plotting mayhem for years, even as he had been living a life that by all appearances seemed normal and productive.

Where the Republican debate focused almost solely on the threat of terrorism, the Democrats also sought to broaden the discussion to other issues that are priorities to voters.

"Our people are fearful. They are anxious on a number of levels. They are anxious about international terrorism and the possibility of another attack on America. We all understand that," Sanders said. "But you know what else they're anxious about? They're anxious about the fact that they are working incredibly long hours, they're worried about their kids, and they're seeing all the new income and wealth - virtually all of it - going to the top 1 percent."

They want to "create an economy that works for working families and not just billionaires," Sanders said.

Democrats also focused on what they said was the need to remain tolerant and appreciative of the nation's diversity.

O'Malley spoke of a recent visit to a mosque in Northern Virginia.

"As I looked out there at the eyes of our neighbors, I also looked in the eyes of veterans. I looked into the eyes of Boy Scouts. I looked into the eyes of moms and dads who would do anything in their power to protect our country's values and our freedoms," O'Malley said.

Democrats also framed gun control as an issue that is directly linked to national security; by comparison, Republicans have often argued that Americans would be safer if more of them carried firearms.

"You have to look at both the terrorism challenge that we face abroad and certainly at home, and the role that guns play in delivering the violence that stalks us," Clinton said.

"Guns, in and of themselves, in my opinion, will not make Americans safer. We lose 33,000 people a year already to gun violence, arming more people to do what I think is not the appropriate response to terrorism," she added.
