BYLINE: Amber Phillips.

Best thing that happened to Democrats.

They made history with their presidential nominee. Again. From a purely political perspective, becoming the first major party to nominate a woman fits neatly with Democrats' attempts to pitch the party as the more inclusive of the two. Indeed, statistics indicate that Democratic voters are already more diverse than Republican voters. According to July's Washington Post/ABC News polling, more than half of Clinton's support (57 percent) comes from women, and almost half of her support (44 percent) comes from nonwhite voters. Meanwhile, 55 percent of Trump supporters are men; 86 percent of them are white. Democrats spent the entire week at their convention in Philadelphia trying to underscore that contrast. And with good reason: Their message of diversity and inclusiveness could help Democrats' electoral map advantage as the percentage of nonwhite voters continues to grow across the country.

Best thing that happened to Republicans.

A Clinton ally suggested she would do an about-face and support the Trans-Pacific Partnership free-trade deal once she was in the White House. Virginia Gov. Terry McAuliffe (D) tried to walk back his comments a day after he said them, but not after some damage to his friend's presidential campaign had been inflicted. During her primary campaign, Clinton caught flak from both sides of the political aisle when she said she could not support the 12-nation trade deal that she herself lobbied for while secretary of state. The more liberal backers of her party were already skeptical of her professed opposition to it. McAuliffe's comment risks undermining her credibility on the issue, and it gives Donald Trump a bigger opening into the anti-free-trade vote, which he's courting.

- Amber Phillips.

60.

The number of countries that have already had female leaders, according to the Pew Research Center, although very few of those women have won in presidential elections.

30,000.

The number of deleted Hillary Clinton emails that Donald Trump asked Russia to find, which would require hacking into Clinton's private email server. Trump later said he was joking.

100 days.

The time frame in which Democrats' vice presidential nominee, Sen. Tim Kaine (D-Va.), promised immigration reform if he and Clinton take office in January.