New Iran sanctions bill lacks bipartisan support.

Only two Democrats currently back Sen. Bob Corker's legislation.

After months of negotiations, a small group led by Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Bob Corker (R-Tenn.) is introducing a new bill to impose sanctions on Iran, as Republicans continue to warn that last year's nuclear deal with Iran was a dangerous mistake by the Obama administration.

But, so far, only two Democrats, both of whom opposed the Iran deal, are backing the measure.

The legislation seeks to step up mandatory sanctions against individuals and entities involved with Iran's ballistic missile program, the Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps, and cyberthreats and espionage efforts. It also would renew through 2026 the expiring Iran Sanctions Act, or ISA, which outlines trade, energy, defense and banking sector sanctions over Iran's nuclear and missile activities. In addition, the proposal would prohibit Iran's financial institutions from engaging in dollar-based financial transactions with banks in third-party countries.

But Corker's usual negotiating partner, committee ranking Democrat Sen. Benjamin L. Cardin (Md.), is not on board with the compromise and is not expected to sign on anytime soon.

Corker said he began speaking with other members a few months ago after he and Cardin came to an impasse over waiver language. The chairman's bill would prohibit the president from waiving any sanctions to enter into new agreements with Tehran - a provision, Corker said, that is meant to make sure Congress has to approve any future deals with Iran before they can go forward.

"We wanted to ensure that no president could waive sanctions and implement an international agreement without congressional approval," Corker said in a telephone interview Wednesday, pointing out that 98 senators voted last year to insist on a chance to review the Iran deal. "Most Democrats agree that a president should not be able to do that."

But most Democrats have not signed on to the legislation yet, even though several oppose the nuclear deal with Tehran. Instead of Cardin, Corker teamed up with Sens. Robert Menendez (D-N.J.), Joe Manchin III (D-W.Va.) and Marco Rubio (R-Fla.), all of whom opposed the Iran deal last summer, to introduce the bill.

Building bipartisan support for the politically divisive issue will be difficult, particularly during an election season. Menendez said he approached Corker three or four months ago with draft legislation he wrote after being dissatisfied with the answers he was getting from the administration during various rounds of testimony.

"The administration generally has the position that they're against everything," Menendez said in a telephone interview Wednesday. "They have said no to everything; they wish that Congress would just go away."

Like Corker, Menendez also rejected the notion that Democrats could legitimately pull away from the bill over the issue of waivers, arguing that there is "flexibility for the administration" in the sanctions regime, particularly when it comes to making case-by-case exceptions for national security and humanitarian reasons.

"That would be a false reason," Menendez said. "If you don't want to do something about broadening our efforts against Iranian aggression in other areas, fine, but you can't use the waivers as a reason."

Corker said he and his partners were "meticulous" about ensuring that they were "in no way involving any language that would touch the JCPOA," a formal acronym for the Iran deal. "If we were to touch it in any way, the administration would say that we were undermining the nuclear deal, so this is in no way touches that."

Cardin said Wednesday that Republicans rejected his attempts to include language to strengthen enforcement of the nuclear agreement, calling it an "area of contention."

Cardin also said he thinks that the administration would be just as pleased if Congress did nothing on the subject of sanctions.

"The administration obviously recognizes that this issue could get out of control in the Congress, so they are not necessarily promoting any particular legislative strategy at this point," Cardin told reporters Wednesday.

Cardin stressed that "the way to proceed is to get Democrats and Republicans working together," suggesting that the only way to do that with this Congress might be to simply pass an unadorned renewal of the Iran Sanctions Act, which expires at the end of the year.

"That's a pretty clear statement by Congress, unambiguous, and it will receive near-unanimous support," Cardin said.

But neither chamber is pursuing any Iran measures that are that simple.

In the House, lawmakers this week passed a set of measures to step up sanctions against Iran over its ballistic missile program, human rights violations and support for terrorism. The measures would also prevent Iran from engaging in dollar-based transactions offshore and block the administration from striking any more deals to purchase heavy water, a compound used in some nuclear reactors, from Iran.

Last year, in the wake of failed attempts to defeat the Iran deal, Sen. Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) said that he did not want to bring up any more Iran-related legislation that could not get the support of at least 67 senators - the number necessary to kill the deal in the Senate.

Corker said it might be difficult to build Democratic support during an election season when the parties are deeply split over the legacy of the Iran agreement.

Presumptive Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton backed the deal, while presumptive Republican nominee Donald Trump has threatened to tear it up.

Corker declined to speculate on a backup plan if he is not able to build enough support for his proposal.

But Menendez said he does not think the election calendar matters. If politics makes the road ahead for this legislation too complicated now, he said, Congress can still pass a simple reauthorization of the ISA down the line, probably with "a strong bipartisan vote."
