Cruz reboots his attacks on Trump.

After a pause in N.H., senator seems ready for a no-quarter fight in S.C.

In the final days of his New Hampshire campaign, Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Tex.) never mentioned the man who was likely to beat him. He would discuss the evils of eminent domain but not mention the mogul who actually used it. He would warn voters not to vote for false or squishy Republicans but did not name any.

At the final debate before the primary and at least one town hall, he only hinted at Donald Trump by mentioning the need for a wall on the Mexican border and adding, "I've got an idea of who should build it."

But when the primary was over - after Cruz came in third behind Trump and Ohio Gov. John Kasich - the fleece, and the gloves, came off.

"The other candidates are not able to beat Donald Trump," Cruz told conservative talk-radio host Mike Gallagher on Wednesday. "You can't beat Donald coming from the left. It doesn't work. If you campaign against Donald saying, 'Hey, I'm more liberal than you, I'm more into amnesty than you, I'm going to be softer on radical Islamic terrorists than you,' it doesn't work, as we've seen twice."

Cruz's on-again, off-again battle with Trump is on again, and the senator and his allies intend to bring the front-runner down with the arguments that they believe worked in Iowa, where Trump came in second behind Cruz: Trump's attempted seizures of private property through eminent domain, the 1999 admission that he was "very pro-choice," and his confusing argument in favor of "single-payer" health care.

The official campaign effort is starting slowly. Its post-primary salvo began with a 45-second Web ad, "Playing Trump," in which children use a Trump action figure to bash in a dollhouse, yelling "eminent domain!" A campaign TV ad released Thursday accuses Trump of buying influence "in a pattern of sleaze stretching back decades."

In addition, Keep the Promise I, the most active in a trio of pro-Cruz super PACs, has purchased about $2.5 million of  time in South Carolina for ads that promote Cruz and attack  Trump and Sen. Marco Rubio (R-Fla.). The anti-Trump spot, "Trumpcare," links his amorphous support for universal health coverage with Hillary Clinton's campaigns for the same goal.

"There's some nagging concern he's gone through the political witness protection program to emerge a spanking new conservative," super PAC spokeswoman Kellyanne Conway said. "The greatest problem we've seen is a lack of specificity and an unwillingness to go deep into policy. And eminent domain is a big problem for him. If Trump's entire narrative of 'I'm for the little guy' hits a speed bump, it's because South Carolina becomes more familiar with the victims of Trump's success."

The Cruz campaign sent a fundraising email Wednesday saying that the results in Iowa and New Hampshire show Cruz and Trump are in a two-man race.

"Friend, let me be blunt. I can beat Hillary Clinton. Donald can't," the email read. It stated that Trump is so rattled by Cruz's "surge in the polls" and victory in Iowa "that he has decided to continue his scorched earth campaign in an attempt to burn down everyone and everything in his path." It said that Trump supports "Hillary-style healthcare" and the procedure sometimes called partial-birth abortion.

In 2012, a similar strategy proved damaging to front-runner and former Massachusetts governor Mitt Romney. A pro-Newt Gingrich  PAC launched a mini-documentary and ad campaign that attacked Romney's work at Bain Capital. It included interviews of workers who had lost their jobs in Bain-engineered turnarounds. Gingrich won the South Carolina primary.

Some Cruz endorsers have their own ideas for attacking Trump.

State Rep. Wendy Nanney (R), a leader of Cruz's South Carolina antiabortion coalition, suggested that Trump had not been exposed on his old abortion views. "Voters here have not been doing a lot of investigating yet," she said. "A lot of voters have not looked into Trump's past, but we're going to get out the message that Senator Cruz has always stood for life."

State Sen. Lee Bright (R), another early Cruz supporter, suggested that Trump was vulnerable on the "single-payer health care" quotes. But neither he nor Nanney echoed the tone of Cruz, who has called the mogul turned candidate an obvious phony.

"He's against the establishment, but Senator Cruz actually had a record of fighting and beating the establishment," Bright said.

The polls of South Carolina have provided little clarity about the strength of either candidate's support. In an average calculated by RealClearPolitics, Trump leads the field with 36 percent support, and Cruz is at 20 percent. But all of the polls were conducted before the Iowa caucuses and Trump's New Hampshire comeback.

Dan Tripp, South Carolina state director of Keep the Promise, was unsure why the battle with Trump seemed to start and stop during the past week.

"Maybe we're just trying to let the bully learn the lesson and leave us alone," Tripp said. "We're trying to show some mercy to the bully." South Carolina, he said, was "where we have a chance to go mano a mano with Trump and, you know, like we did in Iowa, show that a real ground game can make the difference."
