Why Obama's high-court pick might still fly - with the aid of a lame duck.

Is the president being naive - or cunning?

With Merrick Garland, President Obama made the safe, conventional, even boring choice for the Supreme Court. He's trying to call the Republicans' bluff and force their hand by nominating a centrist judge who has been praised extensively by the right. He's telling allies that he hopes this forces Republicans to reconsider their knee-jerk opposition to granting Garland a hearing. And then, once the judge gets in front of the Judiciary Committee, the president hopes obstruction would become politically untenable for the GOP. As The Post's Ruth Marcus puts it, Obama is trying to make Republicans "an offer they can't afford to refuse."

Right now, Garland looks dead on arrival. The chief judge of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit visited the Capitol on Thursday to meet with top Senate Democrats, including Harry Reid and Pat Leahy. Majority Leader Mitch McConnell agreed to a phone call on Wednesday, but only to tell Garland that he won't agree to a "perfunctory" sit-down. Only half a dozen Senate Republicans, of 54 total, even expressed a willingness to take a courtesy meeting with Garland. As John Cornyn, the No. 2 in the GOP leadership, put it: "This person will not be confirmed. So there's no reason going through some motions and pretending like it's going to happen, because it's not going to happen."

Anyone who knows anything about McConnell knows he will not cave - unless or until it works to his party's advantage.

It's not a done deal, but it seems increasingly likely that Donald Trump will be the Republican nominee. Furthermore, the first-time candidate is more likely than not to lose the general election. He could take the GOP Senate majority down with him. It's hard to imagine Republican incumbents surviving in Wisconsin, Illinois and Pennsylvania with The Donald at the top of the ticket, and it's harder still to imagine GOP candidates winning in Florida and Nevada with the Trump head winds. Trump as the nominee makes it much more likely that the Senate map expands in Democrats' favor: Missouri's Roy Blunt, North Carolina's Richard Burr and even Arizona's John McCain could each lose his seat because of Trump. Republican turnout could be depressed as Hillary Clinton benefits from a yawning gender gap and record Latino turnout.

What worries the smartest people on the left is that McConnell will shepherd Garland's confirmation through during the lame-duck session if Clinton wins, depriving the first female president of her ability to pick a more progressive alternative. While Garland is 63, which means he has a relatively shorter shelf life on the bench, Clinton could pick her own 40-something nominee.

Republican senators are split on whether they'd vote for Garland during a lame-duck session if Clinton wins. Jeff Flake said he would. Lindsey Graham and David Perdue, who are both on the Judiciary Committee, said on the record that it would be inappropriate and disingenuous. "We can't have it both ways," Graham said. "We cannot say, 'Let the people speak,' and then say ,'No, you can't.'."

McConnell has said repeatedly "the next president" should choose the nominee. But he's also said much over the years about the Senate's sacred obligation to confirm a president's judicial picks (back when it was Republicans who were picking them). That's certainly not stopping him from blocking Garland now.

Judiciary Committee Chairman Chuck Grassley spoke with Garland and did not rule out a meeting. But he reiterated that there won't be a hearing.

But, but, but: Will the Republicans try to have it "both ways"? It seems pretty likely they will - and this is an instance of Republican flip-flopping that Obama would be fine with. Indeed, it's probably what the president has in the back of his mind.

Clinton, though she praised Garland and said Republicans should give him a hearing, notably stopped short of committing to renominate him if she wins.

As The Post's Dana Milbank puts it, "Senate Republicans are unmoved, and liberal activists are uninspired."

On Wednesday, Obama privately made the case to 23 progressive group leaders that he did not sell them out. There are concerns about Garland's moderate record and lack of a paper trail on certain issues, such as abortion. "Obama emphasized that he did not pick a nominee with an eye to pleasing a specific political constituency," wrote Post White House bureau chief Juliet Eilperin, citing participants in the meeting. "He said he thought many Americans would see the inherent unfairness of Republicans' denying Garland a hearing."

Democrats' short-term problem is that nothing about Garland will gin up their base, especially women and African Americans. A Washington Post-ABC News poll last week found that 63 percent of Americans want the Senate to hold hearings. Only one-third approve of waiting until next year. But the survey doesn't capture the degree to which most voters just won't care.
