Ivanka Trump champions (some) working moms.

On the last day of the Republican National Convention in July, Ivanka Trump strode across the stage in a blush-toned dress from her namesake label. Then she shattered party norms, pledging that her father would revolutionize support for working mothers.

"Policies that allow women with children to thrive should not be novelties," she said. "They should be the norm."

Donald Trump's eldest daughter, 34, has built her personal brand around this cause, writing a book called "Women Who Work" and leading the family-friendly policy charge on her father's presidential campaign. But the company that designs her clothing line, including the $157 sheath she wore during her convention speech, does not offer workers a single day of paid maternity leave.

As Ivanka Trump delivered her prime-time speech, a fashion designer for the G-III Apparel Group watched from her home in New York City and rolled her eyes. The employee of nearly four years, a registered Republican who spoke on the condition of anonymity for fear of losing her job, said she became pregnant last year and was dismayed to learn that the company allows just 12 weeks of unpaid leave, the legal minimum for employers with more than 50 workers. So she burned her vacation days, drained her savings and then relied on her husband's income after giving birth to her son.

"It's hard enough emotionally to come back to work right after having a baby," said the designer, who works for another brand at G-III. "But to know you're returning to a company that doesn't value your choice to be a mother makes it harder."

Through a spokeswoman, Trump declined to comment for this article. A representative for the Ivanka Trump brand - a 12-employee business pitched as "the ultimate destination for Women Who Work" - noted that the company offers new mothers eight weeks of paid leave. It also offers flexible work hours for parents.

Trump signed a licensing agreement with G-III in 2012, granting the company rights to design and distribute her clothing line, which includes dresses, suits and jeans. (Marc Fisher Footwear produces her shoe line.)

At the time, she released a statement saying, "G-III has distinguished itself as a trusted partner for some of the world's finest and most visible brands. We are confident that they share our vision for the future of our brand and business and look forward to a long and successful partnership."

In July, Sammy Aaron, vice chairman of G-III, told Forbes that Trump is "very involved on a weekly basis" in the design process. Yet the company's policy breaks from Trump's public stance on how businesses should support working mothers.

G-III did not respond to The Washington Post's repeated requests for comment. However, five past and current employees separately told The Post that the company offers no paid parental leave. One provided a document that she identified as G-III's employee benefits. "Family MEDICAL Leave," the document states, becomes available "after 1 year of employment. Up to 12 weeks of unpaid leave (in accordance with Federal and State laws)."

"I think parental leave is enormously important - and it's a personal decision," Trump told Business Insider in March. "Part of building a company whose goal is to empower women in all aspects of life is that I've given my team some leeway to determine what parental leave looks like for each of them individually."

Trump announced the partnership with G-III after cutting ties with the financially struggling HMX Group, which launched her collection in stores in 2012. The mid-priced apparel sells at Macy's, Nordstrom, Lord & Taylor and other department stores.

Ivanka Trump clothing generated about $100 million in revenue last fiscal year, G-III reports show. The company - which also partners with Calvin Klein, Jessica Simpson and Tommy Hilfiger, among more than 15 other brands - recorded $2.3 billion in net sales this fiscal year. The Ivanka Trump contract is up for renewal in 2018.

When two businesses write a brand licensing agreement, employee benefits aren't normally part of the discussion. Trump, however, paints herself as someone deeply involved in all of her professional undertakings - while raising three children.

"Me and my peers, we're working really hard at being moms and sisters and professionals," Trump told Vogue last year. "There was a previous generation of women who rose through the ranks in an environment when work and life were highly compartmentalized. And I think now, because of technology, we're always on. Where there used to be work life and home life, now it's one life. And I think a lot of companies don't recognize that."

Her message starkly contrasts with past words of her father, whose campaign website has no reference to a paid family leave policy. When asked for his position during a Fox News Business interview in October, Donald Trump said, "It's something that's being discussed. I think we have to keep our country very competitive, so you have to be careful of it."

The Trump Organization did not respond to questions about how much parental leave it offers employees.

Ivanka Trump, who is executive vice president of development and acquisitions at her father's company, told the New York Times that she took off eight days in 2011 after her first child, Arabella, was born.

"The nature of the projects I was working on required me to have a hyper-abbreviated maternity leave," she told the newspaper. "Yes, there are times when I look back and wish that had not been the case. But it's life, and it's a marathon, not a sprint."

In the United States, employers aren't required to keep paying workers who pause duties after giving birth. Still, G-III's lack of benefits separates it from firms of comparable size. About 58 percent of American companies with 1,000 or more employees fund maternity leave at full or partial compensation, according to a 2014 Labor Department study. G-III has more than 7,600 employees, mostly working in its retail stores, according to company documents.

It's not the first time Trump business practices have appeared to clash with the campaign's positions. Last month, the Independent, a British newspaper,  revealed that most of the Ivanka Trump brand's clothing was manufactured in Vietnam and China.  Donald Trump, whose apparel also is largely manufactured overseas, has made decrying outsourced jobs central to his campaign.

"Business executives who are serious about their values actually know their partners," said Sandra Sucher, a Harvard Business School professor who focuses on ethics. "They know how they manage themselves and their business. They say, 'This is what I believe in and stand for and, because of that, this is how you can expect to be treated.'."

In addition to paid leave, aides say Ivanka Trump also advises her father on issues such as equal pay and child care, reciting input from policy wonks beyond the political realm.

"Women are paid equally for the work that we do and when a woman becomes a mother, she is supported, not shut out," she said at the Republican convention, referring to her father's employment practices. "As president, my father will change the labor laws that were put into place at a time when women were not a significant portion of the workforce."

The next day, her Twitter account posted: "Shop Ivanka's look from her #RNC speech."
