Ted Cruz: Constitutional conservative or another typical career politician?

To stop Ted Cruz, the Republican establishment is working around the clock to caricature the Texas senator as just another career politician who follows the political winds and not core principles.

The strategy, being pursued by several of Cruz's rivals, is aimed squarely at eroding his perceived authenticity, a core strength that has made him the front-runner in Iowa.

In this regard, Cruz's back-and-forth with Marco Rubio (Fla.) over his position on a 2013 Senate bill is about much more than immigration. It's about whether he is as much a finger-in-the-wind politician as the rest of the pack.

Beyond just immigration, Rubio's campaign has blasted out a barrage of news releases and clips aimed at portraying Cruz as a flip-flopping politician who will say whatever makes the most political sense at the moment he says it, from crop insurance to defense spending.

Cruz has also been hit by the hawks and doves in his party for what they characterize as shifting rhetoric on the U.S. role in the Middle East.

"I think that Ted Cruz is a man who is lost," said Lindsey O. Graham, his hawkish South Carolina colleague and ex-rival in the presidential race. "He is trying to be an isolationist when that's hot; he's trying to be a Lindsey Graham-type when that's hot."

Sen. Rand Paul (Ky.) has released a Web video that accuses Cruz of being welcoming to Syrian refugees before that became an unpopular position after the Paris attacks.

New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie accused Cruz of opposing the NSA's bulk collection of metadata for political, not philosophical, reasons. "He went for the easy political vote at a time when it looked like it was a popular thing to do," the New Jersey governor said. "With all those dead Parisians, it doesn't look so popular!"

The pro-Christie Union Leader, New Hampshire's largest newspaper, has run a string of negative editorials pushing the same line of attack. "Obsequious pandering to Trump belies Cruz's well-honed reputation as a maverick standing up to party leadership in defense of conservative principles," the editorial board recently wrote. "Cruz had a chance to stand up for conservative principles on stage in Vegas, and he folded like a gambler with a busted flush."

Washington Post columnist Michael Gerson, a speechwriter in George W. Bush's White House, calls Cruz "a conviction candidate with the challenges of a chameleon": "As a presidential candidate, his superpower is to sense exactly where the right is at any given moment and get there himself, with a flourish that leads to a standing O. The problem for Cruz is that the conservative soul has been divided on foreign policy over the past decade, leaving him in an uncomfortable straddle."

There's a history of outsider mavericks faltering when voters judge that they're not that different from the insiders they're challenging. Recall Sen. John McCain (Ariz.) damaging his reputation for candor in 2000 when he equivocated on whether South Carolina should remove the Confederate flag from the state capitol. Gary Hart undermined his bid against Walter Mondale in 1984 when he flip-flopped on whether the United States should move its embassy in Israel, a craven effort to win Jewish votes ahead of the New York primary.

The Cruz campaign calls this a false narrative that the base won't buy, especially because conservative thought leaders such as Rush Limbaugh are backing them up. "Try they might, but no one believes that Cruz is anything but a constitutional, fiscal and social conservative," Cruz spokesman Rick Tyler said, "and he has the record, unlike his detractors, to back it up." On the campaign trail, Cruz describes himself as "a consistent conservative."

Harry M. Reid (D-Nev.) blasted Rubio and defended Cruz in a recent interview with The Post. "I just think what Rubio has done on immigration is one of the worst, worst machinations in politics that I've ever seen," the Senate minority leader said. "It shows a lack of character in my opinion." Reid said both Rubio and Cruz are "non-entities in the Senate," but he gave the Texan a back-handed compliment: "You never have to guess where he is. He's not winning personality contests here. Cruz is just who he is. He just is a very, very smart man marching forward with some ideas I don't like."

Cruz defends his outsider bona fides in a commercial running on Iowa TV: "Securing our borders and stopping illegal immigration is a matter of national security," the senator says directly to the camera. "That's why I fought so hard to defeat President Obama and the Republican establishment's Gang of Eight amnesty plan. Their misguided plan would have given Obama the authority to admit Syrian refugees, including ISIS terrorists."
