BYLINE: Amber Phillips.

BEST THING THAT HAPPENED TO REPUBLICANS.

The Supreme Court sided with them on immigration. Kind of. On Thursday, a deadlocked Supreme Court failed to reach a decision on whether President Obama overstepped his constitutional bounds by deferring deportations for millions of illegal immigrants. The  non-decision sent the issue back to the lower courts, which have ruled against Obama's immigration plan. There are still ways for this or the next administration to challenge the ruling. But, legal nuances aside, Republicans can reasonably campaign saying that they won this legal battle  -  and feel vindicated they decided not to consider Merrick Garland's nomination to the Supreme Court. On one of the biggest cases of the year, a deadlocked court worked out for them.

BEST THING THAT HAPPENED TO DEMOCRATS.

They hijacked the floor of the House of Representatives for almost 26 hours. At least it was certainly the most dramatic thing to happen to Democrats last week. House Democrats, looking for a way to shake up the conversation on gun control, seized the floor from Republicans on Wednesday and  said they would refuse to leave until they got a vote on gun-control measures. About 200 Democrats in Congress, including top senators, joined them for the overnight protest, which got wall-to-wall cable news coverage. If Democrats were looking to boost enthusiasm for gun-control policies in a big way, this was it. But it's difficult to see how they  turn their big moment into legislative success. House Speaker Paul D. Ryan (R-Wis.) has indicated he has no plans to bring gun-control measures up for a vote, and a similar compromise stalled in the Senate.

- Amber Phillips.

$50 million.

The amount  Trump essentially gave his campaign Thursday, apparently to show hesitant donors that he's committed to running for president.

3.

The number of people  The Washington Post reported Hillary Clinton is actively vetting to be her running mate.

7.7.

The acreage  of the first national monument to the gay rights movement, as dedicated by President Obama on Friday. The monument encompasses the Stonewall Inn in New York City, the site of an uprising nearly five decades ago.