In China, wake of Trump's Super Tuesday wins churns up unlikely supporters.

BEIJING - There was an element of schadenfreude - the pleasure derived from another's misfortune. And then there was the principle that the enemy of my enemy is my friend.

The view from here of Super Tuesday highlighted both. But plenty of Chinese people who tuned in just seemed to be enjoying the show.

Donald Trump's latest victories in the race for the Republican nomination unleashed a wave of surprisingly positive comments across Chinese social media, from admiration of his credentials as a "strongman" to hopes he will lift the world economy "out of its quagmire" - and one assertion that he really is not "crazy and stupid."

Last week, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying said her country was watching the U.S. presidential race with "bemused interest," and there was a strong current of opinion on social media delighting in America's seemingly chaotic political system.

"It's great fun watching the dogfight in the United States," one user wrote. "This is their democracy."

Other Netizens enjoyed what they saw as their great superpower rival pressing the self-destruct button. "Trump is very cute with a big mouth," one user wrote. "I hope he reigns [over] the United States and makes it as messed up as the Middle East."

Another said he hoped with his "whole heart" that Trump wins the presidential election: "That way I can watch the comedy that is the United States for several years."

But as the nationalist Global Times tabloid noted in an op-ed Thursday, the leading GOP candidate "has surprisingly earned himself a few fans in China."

As the paper noted, it is surprising because Trump has not always had good things to say about China. Although he says he "loves China," and "people from China love me," he also accuses it of stealing American jobs. He promises to immediately declare it a currency manipulator. He rails against its "Great Wall of Protectionism" and pledges to stand firm against its "cheating" and "financial blackmail."

"Many of his ideas are far from heartwarming," columnist Ai Jun wrote in the Global Times piece. "In the normal run of events, China should reject an arrogant, hawkish candidate like him out of hand."

But Trump has one thing in common with Chinese people, the columnist suggested: "His winning streak is solid proof that U.S. voters are tired of Washington politics."

"The Chinese people also have had enough of U.S. politicians' deeds betraying their words," Jun wrote.

In an article posted on the party-controlled website, the Paper, and widely circulated online, Shen Xincheng, a doctoral candidate at the Georgia Institute of Technology, urged Chinese people not to rush to judgment, even if the Republican Party and observers alike see Trump as "crazy and stupid."

"To the public, he is the most human among the GOP candidates," Shen wrote. "What he says is truth, as even GOP voters know very well themselves."

Trump has another attraction to the nationalists who often dominate the debate on Chinese social media: He isn't Hillary Clinton.

He would be a better president than Clinton "no matter what," one user commented.

"She seems to be less welcomed," the Global Times wrote, "given her tough attitude toward Beijing, incessant accusations about China's human rights record, and her push for the U.S. re-balance to the Asia-Pacific strategy as secretary of state."

Trump sometimes seems fixated on China. But he uses it as a foil to reflect on the relative decline and weakness of the United States. If China can build a Great Wall, he observed this week, without tractors or cranes, then he can build one along the Mexican frontier.

Of course, Chinese social media is a poor reflection of public opinion.  Perhaps the approving comments directed at Trump merely reflect the notion that a strongman, and a businessman, in the White House might not be such bad news for a one-party authoritarian regime that commands tremendous economic power.
