Senator from Vermont steps off campaign trail to stop by White House.

Sanders praises Obama after 45-minute meeting on policy and politics.

With five days remaining until the Iowa caucuses, Democratic presidential candidate Bernie Sanders took a brief detour from the campaign trail Wednesday to meet one on one at the White House with the man he is seeking to succeed.

Emerging from a 45-minute meeting with President Obama, Sanders said the session provided a chance to talk about foreign and domestic policy and "occasionally a little bit of politics." Sanders said he didn't seek or receive Obama's endorsement in the race for the Democratic nomination against Hillary Clinton.

"I enjoyed the meeting, and I thought it was a very positive and constructive meeting," he said, speaking to reporters for seven minutes outside the White House.

Clinton, who served as Obama's secretary of state, and Sanders are locked in a tight race in the nation's first caucus state, with polls showing Clinton's once formidable lead having evaporated.

Obama has officially stayed neutral in a contest in which both candidates would love to generate the same kind of enthusiasm that Obama did in 2008, producing a record-setting turnout on caucus night. In that respect, the meeting produced favorable optics for Sanders at a time when many Iowa Democrats are wrestling over their final choice.

Obama has met previously with Clinton.

Speaking to reporters after the meeting, White House press secretary Josh Earnest argued that a competitive Democratic primary was not a problem.

"That debate is good for our democracy," he said. "It's also good for the party. And in the context of that debate, Senator Sanders has had great success in engaging and even inspiring a large segment of the Democratic Party. That ability to engage Democrats and excite them and inspire them will be critical to the success of Democrats up and down the ballot, whether Senator Sanders is the nominee or not."

Sanders, who has made rebuilding the middle class a rallying cry of his campaign, went out of his way in talking to reporters to praise Obama's economic accomplishments, citing statistics about the dire financial outlook he inherited.

"So it is absolutely fair to say, and I say it every day, that we have got to do a lot better to protect the middle class and working families, but it's also important to remember how far we have come in the last seven years under the leadership of President Obama and Vice President Biden," he said.

David Simas, assistant to the president and director of the White House's Office of Political Strategy and Outreach, said in an interview Wednesday that given Obama's popularity with both Democratic primary and general-election voters, he was confident that the president would end up campaigning for whoever wins the party's presidential primary campaign.

Sanders said both Obama and Biden have been fair to him and Clinton, despite some recent suggestions by the news media that the president has his thumb on the scale for Clinton.

"What the president has tried to do, what Vice President Biden has tried to do, is to be as evenhanded as they can be," Sanders said.

The idea of the meeting between Obama and Sanders was raised when the two men talked at last month's Congressional Ball, Earnest said.

Several of Clinton's top aides have served in the Obama White House - including her campaign chairman John D. Podesta, communications director Jennifer Palmieri and senior policy adviser Jake Sullivan - and they periodically check in with the president's current staff on their policy plans and announcements. Although there is no such overlap with Sanders's team, a White House official who spoke anonymously to discuss internal strategy said Wednesday, "Certainly there are discussions between the White House and the Sanders campaign." The aide declined to specify the nature of those discussions.
