Republican seeks new Clinton inquiry.

Chaffetz asks for probeof email deletions bytech company staffer.

House Oversight Committee Chairman Jason Chaffetz on Tuesday requested yet another Justice Department investigation of Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton - this one focused on emails that a tech company staffer deleted in spite of a congressional committee's request that they be preserved.

In the letter - addressed to the U.S. attorney for the District of Columbia, Channing D. Phillips - the Utah Republican asks for an investigation to determine whether "Secretary Clinton or her employees and contractors violated statutes that prohibit destruction of records, obstruction of congressional inquiries, and concealment or cover up of evidence material to a congressional investigation."

The request is based on an incident in which an employee for Platte River Networks - the company that at one time managed Clinton's private email server - deleted an archive of Clinton emails, even though he had been asked to preserve them by the House Select Committee on Benghazi. The episode was revealed last week in documents made public by the FBI about its investigation into Clinton's use of a private email server as secretary of state.

The FBI concluded in that case that while Clinton and her staffers were careless in how they handled classified information, no reasonable prosecutor would bring charges against them. Republican legislators have questioned that determination, waging an aggressive campaign to get the FBI to release more information about the probe while requesting new investigations.

Chaffetz and Rep. Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), for example, earlier asked the U.S. attorney in D.C. whether Clinton committed perjury when she testified before a congressional committee about her use of a private email server.

A Justice Department spokeswoman declined to comment on Chaffetz's latest request. Clinton, speaking to reporters Tuesday on her plane en route to Tampa, said of Chaffetz's latest request: "The FBI resolved all of this. Their report answered all the questions. The findings included debunking his latest conspiracy theories."

A spokesman for Platte River declined to address the FBI's report specifically but said in a statement that "Platte River Networks did not, at any time, treat the server belonging to the Clintons differently than we did any other client. We maintain all security precautions were in place, and continued to be so, throughout our service to said client."

According to an FBI summary of its investigation, Cheryl Mills, a top Clinton aide, sent the Platte River employee an email referencing the preservation request weeks before he made the deletions, and Mills and Clinton told investigators they were unaware of what the employee had done.

Some details of the episode, though, remain murky. According to the FBI summary, Mills and another Clinton aide asked the Platte River employee to delete emails in December 2014 or January 2015 and also to modify the period in which emails were retained. The employee, though, did not do so immediately, according to the summary.

On March 2, 2015, the New York Times revealed that Clinton used a personal email account as secretary of state, and the following day, the Benghazi committee requested documents related to it be preserved. On March 25, Platte River, which then managed Clinton's private server, had a conference call with staffers of Bill Clinton, according to the summary.

The Platte River employee told FBI agents that sometime in the week that followed, he realized he had not made the changes Mills requested months earlier - though he gave varying stories as to what happened next. The employee first said he did not recall making deletions based upon his realization, but in a later interview said he had an "Oh, s---" moment and deleted a Hillary Clinton email archive using a program called BleachBit, which is designed to prevent recovery.
