Indiana governor endorses Cruz - but also has praise for front-runner.

INDIANAPOLIS - Ted Cruz, who badly needs a win in Tuesday's GOP primary in Indiana, received the endorsement of Gov. Mike Pence (R) on Friday, injecting his presidential bid with some much-needed local support heading into the final weekend of campaigning in the Hoosier State.

But Pence's endorsement - delivered during an afternoon radio interview where Cruz was not present - was carefully worded so as not to offend Republican front-runner Donald Trump, leaving doubts about how effective it would be in rallying support for the senator from Texas.

"I'm not against anybody, but I will be voting for Ted Cruz in the upcoming primary," Pence said in an interview with conservative host Greg Garrison on WIBC radio in Indianapolis.

The endorsement came as Cruz was looking to end a stream of bad news in his long-shot bid to stop Trump. He has lost six primaries in a row to the business mogul and is desperately in need of a win to turn his campaign around. Public polls show Trump leading slightly in Indiana.

Pence, who is running for reelection this year, praised Cruz for showing "the courage of his convictions." But first, Pence sounded a positive note about Trump.

"I particularly want to commend Donald Trump, who I think has given voice to the frustration of millions of working Americans," the governor said.

It wasn't clear how active Pence would be on the campaign trail. He said he plans to support the Republican nominee, whoever it ends up being.

Cruz's allies promoted the news as a positive sign.

"I appreciate Indiana Governor @mike_pence endorsing @tedcruz for President. He's standing up for Conservatism - not Trumpism," tweeted Sen. Lindsey O. Graham (R-S.C.), a former presidential candidate and a Cruz supporter.

Pence's announcement came as a surprise to Cruz and many Indiana political observers. Shortly before the governor made the announcement, Cruz told reporters that he did not know whether Pence would endorse him, even as speculation was brewing publicly.

At a news conference before a town hall hosted by Fox News Channel, Cruz praised Pence for cutting taxes and paring regulations - moves that he said improved Indiana's economy.

"I have tremendous respect for Governor Mike Pence. He has been an incredible leader for the state of Indiana," Cruz said, adding: "I would enthusiastically welcome his support."

Trump, who also campaigned in the state this week, tweeted, "Thank you Indiana! #Trump2016" on Friday afternoon. His tweet included a picture of him embracing former Indiana University basketball coach Bobby Knight, as well as polling data showing him leading Cruz. Knight campaigned with Trump on Wednesday.

Pence met with Cruz and Trump last week, and this week with Ohio Gov. John Kasich, the third candidate in the GOP race. Kasich agreed to effectively end his bid for Indiana in order to direct the anti-Trump vote in the state toward Cruz. In return, Cruz will clear the way for Kasich to take on Trump in upcoming contests in Oregon and New Mexico.

As he has before, Cruz on Friday played down the idea that he had struck a major deal with Kasich. "There never was a grand alliance," he said.

Cruz continued campaigning Friday with former technology executive Carly Fiorina, who he named Wednesday as his vice-presidential running mate in an apparent effort to shake up the race.

Fiorina told reporters that "John Kasich is throwing votes away."
