‘Black Lives Matter’ Sends Brutal Message To Hillary She Never Saw Coming- ‘Instead Of Pimping….’

In what might be the first time Republicans and the Black Lives Matter movement have ever agreed on anything, the BLM group is calling on Hillary Clinton to “stop pimping black votes” and call on Rahm Emanuel to resign as Chicago’s mayor.

In this year’s election, there is only one African American presidential candidate running for president, and he is not a Democrat. Rather than Republican presidential candidate Ben Carson, the only African American candidate in the race, the BLM group has now set its sights on Clinton.

One BLM activist tweeted:

<tweet tweet-author="@DMVBlackLives" tweet-date="February 16, 2016">PREACH! She legit should be spending time convincing her bestie Rahm to resign instead of pimping black votes… https://t.co/gwzQMEyL6R<tweet/>.

Rahm Emanual, President Obama’s first White House Chief of Staff is the current mayor of Chicago. Emanuel worked alongside Clinton in the Obama administration when Clinton was Secretary of State.

Chicago residents have accused Emanuel of covering up, delaying, and withholding facts surrounding the murder of Chicago teenager Laquan McDonald by Chicago police officer Jason Van Dyke. Thirteen months passed before a federal judge ordered Emanuel’s office, along with the county prosecutor, to release emails and video of the shooting. Once the video was released, which showed Chicago police officer Jason Van Dyke shooting McDonald, the community immediately began calling for Emanuel to resign, a decision which he has, so far, refused to consider. While Clinton has voiced concern over the case, and of Emanuel’s situation, she has not called for him to resign.

George Zornick of The Nation wrote, “If you want people to know you care about police brutality, you have to demonstrate that you care even when “your team” needs to be held accountable. Otherwise, everything else you say on the subject is rendered insincere.” Zornick’s comment highlighted the silence Democrats, including Clinton, have demonstrated amid calls for Emanuel to resign. One petition for Emanuel to resign has already received 250,000 signatures.

Alongside BLM calls for action, even a top GOP strategist said Clinton will have to choose whose side she’s on, saying, “At some point, she’s going to have to come out — I think the pressure’s going to build on her — on where she stands on her longtime family adviser.”