Obama Claims Hillary Most Qualified Presidential Candidate Ever, But ….

One of the central claims of President Barack Obama’s speech to the Democratic National Convention on Wednesday night does not stand up to scrutiny.

He told his Democratic audience, to rowdy applause:

“I can say with confidence there has never been a man or a woman, not me, not Bill [Clinton], nobody more qualified than Hillary Clinton to serve as president of the United States of America.”

While it is certainly true that Hillary Clinton is more qualified, in terms of experience, than Obama was to be president (he was a former state senator, a half-term U.S. senator and a community organizer), there are many who served in the Oval Office who were eminently more qualified than the former secretary of state, both in terms of experience and, even more importantly, character.

<tweet tweet-id="758501003519864832"><tweet/>.

The president listed Clinton’s resume to try to make his case: attorney and advocate for children, first lady, U.S. senator and secretary of state.

Only one of those positions involves executive experience, secretary of state, and her record there is questionable at best (more on that subject in a moment).

One need look no further than another president whom Obama mentioned later in his speech to find someone more qualified: Ronald Reagan.

While liberals dismissed him as a Hollywood actor, the truth was he was a successful two-term governor of the most populous state in the country, California, with an economy that still ranks among the top 10 largest in the world.

What about Franklin Roosevelt? He was assistant secretary of the Navy during World War I, then went on to serve as governor of New York, which at the time was the most populous state, also with one of the largest economies in the world.

Then there is five-star Gen. Dwight Eisenhower. He led a multination effort to defeat Nazi Germany and then served as a military governor of the defeated, war-ravaged nation, helping it get back on its feet and establish its own democratic government.

Gen. George Washington also comes to mind. Of course, he led the fledgling United States through eight years of war and to victory (working in conjunction with ally France) against the nation with the largest military in the world. He then presided over the Constitutional Convention, which wrote and adopted the form of government under which we still live today, more than 200 years later.

His leadership and character were so revered at the time that he was chosen by unanimous Electoral College vote to be president, for the first and only time in the nation’s history.

Now, how does Obama’s claim about Clinton stack up?

While it is true that she has been around power for much of her adult life, her only true executive experience, as mentioned above, is as secretary of state, and there she displayed what most would agree was truly poor judgment.

One need look no further than Benghazi and the use of her private, unsecured, unauthorized email server for examples. The latter by her own admission was a “mistake.” The State Department’s inspector general judged it much worse in a scathing report issued in May.

As reported by Western Journalism, former CIA operative and Marine John “Tig” Tiegen found both issues to be disqualifying.

He noted what the Select Committee on Benghazi discovered in its investigation: Much of Clinton’s time during a two-hour meeting in the White House Situation Room as the attacks were unfolding was spent discussing the false internet video narrative that she and others in the Obama administration would claim was the cause of the attack, not determining how to rescue her personnel.

“Instead of making sure … the Americans she sent there come home safe … she goes home. That’s it,” Tiegen stated. “If you’re going to be a leader and your employees are under attack, you should be in the Situation Room watching it.”

Based on her actions that night, “I don’t see how anyone can trust her as a commander-in-chief,” Tiegen said.

Clinton’s judgment has also been called into question with regard to her push to overthrow Libyan dictator Moammar Gadhafi. Libya is now a failed state and an enclave for ISIS.

Tiegen was also troubled by Clinton’s handling of highly classified material.

“Her lack of respect for security information, top secret information, that just puts lives in jeopardy, not just American lives, but our foreign assets. Who wants to work with us, if you have somebody like that?” he wondered.

Concerning her use of her private server, FBI Director James Comey stated Clinton and her team were “extremely careless in their handling of very sensitive, highly classified information.”

The director further stated, while testifying before Congress earlier this month, that Clinton was not truthful with the American public about the presence of classified material on her server (there were over 2,000 emails containing it, including “top secret”), about whether she herself had emailed classified information on it (not just received), and about handing over all her work-related emails to the State Department as required by law. Comey testified “thousands” of emails in fact had not been turned over.

While Obama may be able to win the applause of Democrat National Committee delegates with his claim of Clinton’s super-qualifications to be president, his words are both factually and qualitatively false.