Right After The Debate, Trump Launched A 6-Word Missile That Buried Jeb Even More.

Donald Trump dismissed a report in Politico that Jeb Bush has been considering announcing that he will not endorse the billionaire businessman, if he becomes the Republican party nominee.

Trump told the Washington Post in a written statement, “I really don’t want Jeb’s endorsement [emphasis added], because he is a low-energy person and he does not represent strength, power and stamina, which are qualities our country desperately needs.”

The candidate added, “But if he does not endorse and support me as the nominee, legally he cannot be on the ballot in many states, so that would be the end of his candidacy — but that doesn’t matter because he is not going to win anyway.”

According to the Post, Bush campaign officials looked into what the consequences would be if their candidate announced he would not back Trump now. They determined that, due to party rules, Bush would fall off the ballot in three states: South Carolina, Kentucky, and Utah.

Bush went after Trump at the debate refusing to recant earlier remarks, when he called the businessman “unhinged.” “So Donald, you know, is great at — at the one-liners, but he’s a chaos candidate. And he’d be a chaos president. He would not be the commander in chief we need to keep our country safe,” the former Florida governor said.

“Jeb doesn’t really believe I’m unhinged. He said that very simply because he has failed in this campaign. It’s been a total disaster,” Trump said, adding, “Nobody cares. And frankly, I’m the most solid person up here. I built a tremendous company and all I want to do is make America great again.”

Do you support Donald Trump? Like the page:

A random survey conducted by the One America News Network found Trump the winner of Tuesday night’s debate with 35 percent of the vote, followed by Cruz at 25 percent and Rubio at 14. Respondents were also asked to pick the loser. Jeb Bush received the most votes at 26 percent, followed by Rand Paul and John Kasich.

<tweet tweet-id="677250632357715968"><tweet/>.