Media Reports Reveal Reason Behind Trump’s Firing Of Campaign Manager.

Corey Lewandowski helped convince Republicans across America that Donald Trump should be their next president.

But according to reports emerging in the news media, he could not convince the family members who make up Trump’s closest inner circle of advisers that he was still an asset to the campaign.

Lewandowski was dismissed on Monday as Trump’s campaign manager, even though much of the operational control of the campaign had been ceded to adviser Paul Manafort.

CNN’s Dana Bash tweeted that Trump’s daughter Ivanka was behind the decision.

<tweet tweet-id="744917430200340480"><tweet/>.

The Washington Post reported that Lewandowski was ousted “at the urging of [Trump’s] three adult children and many key allies.”

“It just came to a head. There were a lot of voices that came together at once,” the Post reported, quoting an anonymous Republican official. “They were moving into a general election phase and wanted one coherent management style.”

Former House Speaker Newt Gingrich said the transition reflects the reality of a presidential campaign.

Trump and his team are “rapidly learning the general election, 50 states simultaneously, is a much bigger, more complex system,” Gingrich said. “The general election is like a gigantic football team — it takes a whole different set of requirements both for the candidate and for the team.”

The Post quoted another unnamed GOP official as saying that Lewandowski was not opposed by Manafort, but by Trump’s children.

“What he is saying to operatives is that the critical mass was finally reached with Trump’s kids,” said the second official.

Members of the Trump family long ago soured on Lewandowski, the Post reported, citing another anonymous source.

“The kids do not like him, and they’re certainly happy with Manafort. Donald was Corey’s only supporter within Trump Tower,” this source told the Post.

When reached by the Associated Press, Lewandowski had little to say.

“Paul Manafort has been in operational control of the campaign since April 7. That’s a fact,” Lewandowski said without further comment.

“This shows donors, activists and party officials that he is willing to make significant changes, even if it means parting ways with a trusted political aide,” said Republican strategist Ryan Williams. “Now Trump needs to demonstrate that he is willing to change his own approach by toning down his rhetoric and becoming a more disciplined general election candidate.”