Wyoming Republicans Support Sending A Familiar Name Back To Washington.

Wyoming Republicans have once again decided they want to send a Cheney to Washington.

Liz Cheney, the daughter of former Vice President Dick Cheney, was the winner of Tuesday’s Wyoming Republican primary for the state’s one and only congressional district.

Dick Cheney represented the at-large district from 1979 to 1989. He later became secretary of defense under former President George W.H. Bush before becoming vice president under former President George W. Bush.

Liz Cheney, 50, received about 40 percent of the vote to win an eight-way primary contest. She will now face Democrat Ryan Greene in November, although she is the favorite due to Wyoming’s overwhelmingly Republican enrollment.

Incumbent Rep. Cynthia Lummis was not seeking a fifth term.

“Now it’s time to look forward, united in our convictions, to defend our constitutional rights and our way of life,” Cheney said in a post-victory statement.

“No state has been hurt more by Barack Obama’s agenda over the past seven-and-a-half years than Wyoming. Hillary Clinton represents a continuation of the same failed policies,” she said.

“Our freedom is under assault from an out-of-control federal government and our security is under threat from radical Islamic terrorism,” she added.

Cheney’s name recognition was a positive factor for her in the race, but a negative was her relatively thin connection to the state. She lived outside of Wyoming for much of her life and only recently relocated from Virginia.

“I think she should have run from Virginia,” said Jason Gilbert of Cheyenne.  “I know that she’s got a name and she’s got some recognition, but I don’t know that there’s much she’s done for the state of Wyoming.”

However, for others, her family connection was important.

“I believe that she’s probably got the background with her family to know,” said Patricia Moran of Cheyenne. “The Cheneys, they’re definitely from here, they know Wyoming.”

“I don’t know much about the others. I know her dad slightly, and of course from his record, so that’s what I’m going by,” said Scott Hawkins of Cheyenne.