Something Horrible Was Just Released About Hillary Clinton, And Mainstream Media Is Silencing It.

Not one, but two Republican candidates would defeat Democratic presidential front-runner Hillary Clinton, according to a new poll that shows more voters view Clinton unfavorably than support her.

The Huffington Post-Morning Consult poll of 2047 registered voters was released Wednesday. As of Thursday, a Google search shows no reports by the major media outlets on the poll, taken from Dec. 3 – Dec. 7.

The poll shows both Donald Trump and Ben Carson beating Clinton 45 to 40 percent. The poll has a margin of error of only plus or minus two percent.

The new poll shows Trump far out in front of his opponents. Trump drew the support of 41 percent of the Republican voters surveyed. Carson was second at 12 percent. Sen. Marco Rubio, R-Fla., was at 10 percent. Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, was at seven percent. The rest of the GOP field polled below five percent.

In head-to-head matchups against Clinton, Rubio tops Clinton 41-40; Clinton ties former Fla. Gov. Jeb Bush at 41-41; Clinton ties N.J. Gov. Chris Christie at 40-40, and Clinton beats Cruz 42-40. All those margins are within the poll’s margin of error.

Do you support Donald Trump? Like the page:

Bush is the only other candidate to join Clinton with an unfavorable rating above 50 percent, coming in at 53 percent.

The poll also showed that 59 percent of those surveyed disapprove of President Obama’s performance, and 74 percent said the country is on the wrong track.

The media silence about the poll’s numbers comes two days after the Huffington Post, which originally said it would cover Trump’s campaign in its entertainment section, said it would treat the Trump campaign as news. However, that news will come with a strong bias, according to a post from Arianna Huffington.

“We’ll not only be covering the ways Trump’s campaign is unique in recent American politics, but also the disastrous impact it continues to have on his fellow candidates — and the national conversation,” she wrote.