Christian Speaker Just Shared This ‘Prophetic Prayer’ About Trump – These 3 Words The Dems Will HATE.

Popular Christian and corporate speaker Lance Wallnau believes he has a word from the Lord for Donald Trump.

Wallnau, who is a Messianic Jewish believer in Jesus, recently posted a video from a conference at which he was speaking in North Carolina. In the video, he sends a message to Trump’s lawyer (and an apparent friend of Wallnau) to pass along to the candidate.

“My dear Michael Cohen,” the conference speaker says into the camera with a raucous crowd behind him. “I am here with a group of people that are praying for and encouraging Mr. Donald Trump. These are the tribe; would you all encourage him!”

The crowd cheers, and then Wallnau continues: “God has given this man an anointing for the mantle of government in the United States and he will prosper [emphasis added].”

In the text accompanying the video post, Wallnau wrote:

I think this prophetic prayer timely, as at this time [late October], Iowa polls are showing a slipping of support for Mr. Trump among Evangelicals who prefer Dr. Carson to Mr. Trump 33% to 18%. I think it’s time evangelicals had a conversation about the criteria for office we are looking for. We want the most evangelical choice. But what we should ask is “who has God anointed?”

The Christian leader further related that it recently occurred to him that the next president will be the nation’s 45th. “I sensed the Lord tell me to look at the 45th Chapter of Isaiah to see who the 45th President of the United States should be.”

Isaiah 45:1 reads: “This is what the LORD says TO HIS ANOINTED, CYRUS, whose right hand I have grasped to subdue nations before him, as I strip kings of their armor, to open doors before him and gates that cannot keep closed.”

Cyrus was a Persian king, who conquered much of the Middle East and well beyond during his lifetime. The biblical prophet Daniel wrote of living under his reign in the mid-500s B.C.

Wallnau elaborated on the message he felt the Lord was seeking to convey:

Cyrus his anointed? But Cyrus was not even a Jew. He was a foreigner. An outsider. But God raises up secular Kings and Rulers for the sake of His people. This was Churchill and Lincoln and even Reagan. God wants to keep the gates of heaven open over certain nations – hence Cyrus will see “gates that cannot keep closed.” The gates of Hell have plundered a lot of ground in America this past seven years. It’s time that the gates of Hell were plundered and things were restored in certain places. Heaven’s gates will open and Hell’s gates will not be able to stay locked.

The Christian speaker shared with the North Carolina crowd that he believes Trump is God’s man for this hour. “Mr. Trump is not as evangelical as the other candidates, but I’ve been with him twice. He fears God as best he knows Him and he is the only Cyrus I see fulfilling Isaiah 45 for the 45th President,” wrote Wallnau.

Wallnau was among the 30 or so pastors and Christian leaders who met with and prayed over Trump in late September at the billionaire’s headquarters in New York City. He wrote about the event–organized by evangelist Paula White and attended by Pastors David Jeremiah and Kenneth Copeland and TBN’s Jan Crouch among others–on his blog, observing of Trump:

Whatever he does he does to win. WINNING is part of his core value system. Trump is like George Patton. He hates losing. He thinks it’s un-American. As long as he’s fighting on the American side you can bet he’s fighting to win the war and distinguish himself as a great General. Anyone suspecting otherwise does not know Donald.