On Eve Of NH Primary, Hillary Just Got Blindsided By Stunning News- It’s A Game Changer.

Heading into Tuesday’s New Hampshire primary, former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s lead for the Democratic presidential nomination against Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders among voters nationwide has virtually disappeared.

According to a Reuters/Ipsos poll, the two candidates are in a dead heat nationally.

Following the Iowa caucus, Clinton is currently leading Sanders, 48 percent to 45 percent among Democrat voters. The poll has a credibility interval of 5 percentage points.

The lead that Clinton enjoyed was severely diminished when the votes were tallied at the Iowa caucus.The outcome showed Clinton had received 49.84 percent while Sanders received 49.59 percent.

Democratic Party officials say that, even if they thought it was appropriate, a recount of Monday’s vote could not be done. During their first one-on-one debate on Thursday night, both candidates said it was no big deal.

Sam Lau, the communications director for the Iowa Democratic Party said in a statement. “There are no paper ballots to recount. Monday’s caucuses were a unique event that involved more than 171,000 Iowans and their neighbors at a specific time and place, an thus, they can not be re-created or recounted.”

Clinton still has the advantage of name recognition over Sanders. Almost 25 percent of Democratic voters and two-fifths of Independents are not familiar with Sanders while Clinton enjoys near total name recognition.

People are responding to the latest polls on social media pages.

<tweet tweet-author="@hardball" tweet-date="February 8, 2016">Sanders leads Clinton in NBC New Hampshire poll @SteveKornacki https://t.co/lqdk1ifVuh pic.twitter.com/PaA39tXPcg<tweet/>.

On the Republican stage, businessman Donald Trump continues to lead field with 40 percent support. Although he finished in second place in the Iowa caucus, his Republican support remains consistent. Sen. Ted Cruz follows Trump with 16 percent while Sen. Marco Rubio comes in third with 13 percent.