Judicial Watch: State Department Hid Key Clinton Benghazi Email For Years.

The State Department withheld a key Benghazi email in 2014 that would have revealed Hillary Clinton’s use of a private email server months before before she authorized the deletion of ten of thousands of emails from it.

Judicial Watch stated in a release Tuesday that a search declaration by the State Department to the court “suggests the hidden email was found in September 2014 as a result of a search in response to Judicial Watch’s lawsuit.”

The government watchdog group filed a Freedom of Information lawsuit against the State Department concerning the Benghazi talking points in July 2014.

“The September 29, 2012, email to Clinton from then-Deputy Chief of Staff Jake Sullivan concerns talking points for Clinton calls with senators about the Benghazi attack. The email contains Clinton’s non-state.gov address,” Judicial Watch added.

As reported by Western Journalism, the New York Times initially broke the story in March, 2015 of Clinton using a private — later revealed to be unsecured — server to conduct her government business while she was secretary of state from 2009-2013.

“Last week’s document production also includes material from a records cache of thousands of new Clinton State Department records supposedly only discovered in December 2015. The new material shows the State Department compiled extensive Libya/Benghazi-related dossiers on Republican and Democrat senators,” according to Judicial Watch.

In granting Judicial Watch a right to discovery in February, a federal judge determined that the State Department’s handling of the email controversy has created at least a “reasonable suspicion” the public’s access to documents under FOIA has been undermined.

“Now we know the Obama administration consciously refused to give up key information about Hillary Clinton’s email in 2014. It covered up this email both from the court and Judicial Watch,” Judicial Watch president Tom Fitton said Tuesday. “Judge Lamberth was right when he suggested that Obama’s State Department acted in bad faith. This cover-up provided Hillary Clinton enough time to hide potentially thousands of government records. One aim of our court-order discovery will be to get to the bottom of this coverup.”