Donald Trump Just Revealed Who He Would Pick For VP – It Might Surprise You.

Donald Trump named Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, when asked to pick a possible running mate, if he should become the nominee.

“Well, I like like him,” Trump said on The Laura Ingraham Show on Tuesday. “He’s backed everything I’ve said…Ted Cruz is now agreeing with me 100 percent.”

According to recent polling, the billionaire candidate is once again strongly leading the field. A Reuters rolling poll shows Trump at the top with 36 percent support followed by Ben Carson at 14 percent and Sens. Marco Rubio and Ted Cruz, 11 and 8 percent respectively.

“I like to think of victory, I’ve had a lot of victories, and I like to do victories first, then start thinking about other things,” Trump told Ingraham.

While Trump affirmed that he likes Cruz to the radio talk show host, he also stated a day earlier, “If [Cruz] catches on, I guess we’ll have to go to war.”

The Trump campaign announced last week that it hired former Cruz spokeswoman Katrina Pierson, who has been outspoken in espousing Tea Party ideals, according to Politico.

<tweet tweet-id="661196115484643328"><tweet/>.

Though Trump was not willing to say for certain who his first choice for a running mate would be, the front-runner did offer his opinion on who will not be the Republican nominee.

“Rubio is not going to be the one…it’s not going to be Rubio,” he said, “Rubio is very, very weak on immigration — a member of the Gang of Eight.”

Trump went on to discuss his strong opposition to the re-settlement of Syrian war refugees in the United States. “Look what Merkel has done in Germany, there are going to be riots over there,” he said of the German leader’s plan to accept as many as 800,000 Syrian immigrants. “I think this is going to destroy Germany.” He added, “Taking these people is absolute insanity.”

Do you support Donald Trump? Like the page:

The candidate also discussed Pres. Obama’s highly criticized press conference in Turkey on Monday, when he refused to admit that he underestimated ISIS and that his strategy to fight them may not be working. Trump thought he sounded like someone who had thrown in the towel. “He’s supposed to be a cheerleader for this country,” Trump said. Instead, “he just acts like a defeated man.”