Republican Party Boosts Spending In Battleground States To Avoid Mistakes Of 2012 Race.

As Donald Trump moved closer to amassing the 1,237 delegates needed to secure the Republican presidential nomination, his polling numbers inched upward to put him neck-and-neck with likely Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton. Though a high percentage of voters in both parties continue to express negative feelings toward each candidate, the results of nationwide surveys indicate that — at least for now — Republicans seem to be unifying at a faster pace.

The Republican National Committee this week announced another step it will be taking to ensure Trump is in the best position possible to take on the Democratic nominee in a general election. Looking to correct some missteps the party made in 2012, RNC Chairman Reince Priebus has authorized a significant staffing increase in the states expected to be most pivotal on Election Day.

Chris Carr, the committee’s political director, released a statement confirming it will more than double the 216 paid staffers currently working in the 11 battleground states identified by the party.

An additional 250 individuals are being sent to Colorado, Florida, Iowa, Michigan, North Carolina, New Hampshire, Nevada, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Virginia and Wisconsin. The move, Carr explained, was the result of nearly three years of preparation — an investment he concludes has constituted a “head-start on Clinton and the DNC (and their primary is still technically raging on).”

Recalling the pitfalls of the previous presidential election, the RNC began spending money much earlier in the process ahead of the 2016 election. After collecting roughly $137 million throughout the current cycle, it currently has just $16 million stashed away. That, RNC Chief of Staff Katie Walsh explained, is by design.

“Trump heads into the general election with a head start on the ground because of the operation the RNC has built,” she said in a recent interview. “And no matter how you slice it, or how much Democrats scramble to put staff in now, they are playing catch up and we have the advantage.”

Pointing to one big change in staffing, Walsh noted that Ohio boasted only one paid staffer ahead of the 2012 election. This year, the RNC has already placed 49 with plans to send another nine staffers to the state within the next few weeks.