Rick Perry Just Announced His Official Endorsement Of A BIG Name Candidate.

Former Texas Gov. Rick Perry announced his endorsement of Sen. Ted Cruz for president on Sunday.

Perry told Politico that he believes the race for the GOP nomination has now come down to the Texas senator and Donald Trump. “Of those individuals who have a chance to win the Republican primary, at this juncture, from my perspective, Ted Cruz is by far the most consistent conservative in that crowd,” Perry said.

The former three-term governor dismissed the argument that Cruz would not be able to get along with Congress if he were elected Chief Executive. “Perry, recalling his own experience vetoing a long list of bills early in his gubernatorial tenure, said his actions resulted in others viewing him as a ‘man of principle,’ and insisted that Cruz would similarly be able to get things done as president, despite his current reputation among fellow senators for being a bomb-thrower,” Politico reported.

“You’ll have with Ted Cruz that same result of, senators and others in the Washington establishment that are mad at him, find him to be hard to work with, they will find a way to work with him because they know he means what he says he means,” Perry said.

The Air Force veteran also believes that Cruz passes the commander-in-chief test. “[Ted] knows he’s going to surround himself with people who do have that experience, and I’m very satisfied that on Day 1, he will be ready to be commander-in-chief,” Perry said.

Do you support Ted Cruz? Like the page:

The former governor, who dropped his own bid for the presidency last September, noted that the electorate is not looking for a traditional candidate this cycle. “Gov. Scott Walker, Bobby Jindal, Rick Perry, Jeb’s barely making an impact out there — those are very skilled, very successful, very experienced governors,” the Texan said. “But the electorate doesn’t want that. That’s why we have elections, why we democratically select leaders.”

Perry, while still a candidate for president last summer, did not have kind words for Donald Trump. In a speech last July, he said:

Let no one be mistaken – Donald Trump’s candidacy is a cancer on conservatism, and it must be clearly diagnosed, excised and discarded.
It cannot be pacified or ignored, for it will destroy a set of principles that has lifted more people out of poverty than any force in the history of the civilized world – the cause of conservatism.
I feel so strongly about this because I believe conservatism is the only way forward for this country.

<tweet tweet-id="690998951823015936"><tweet/>.