Schlafly’s Final Column Explains Why She Sees Reagan-like Qualities In Trump.

Conservative icon Phyllis Schlafly, who died Monday at the age of 92, used her final column to link one of the great conservatives of America’s recent past with the candidate she regards as America’s best hope for its future.

“Donald Trump’s surprise visit to Mexico, where he met the Mexican president and discussed the many contentious issues between our two countries, reminds me of President Reagan’s important trip to Geneva in 1985,” she wrote, recalling the meeting between Reagan and Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev, where Reagan went with a willingness “to build a personal connection between the two men without sacrificing America’s vital interests in the Cold War.”

Schlafly had been a strong supporter of Trump’s presidential campaign. He acknowledged her backing on Monday.

<tweet tweet-id="773113752271060992"><tweet/>.

Schlafly’s final book, The Conservative Case for Trump, was released Tuesday.

Noting that both Reagan and Trump battled staunch opposition from the media, Schlafly put her finger on one facet of Trump’s campaign that, to her, invokes Reagan.

“Trump is the first candidate since Reagan who is comfortable using Reagan’s vocabulary of winning. Trump has pledged to make America ‘win’ again, instead of being cheated and outmaneuvered by our adversaries and even our so-called allies,” she wrote.

Schlafly also noted that Reagan and Trump have shown they are willing to negotiate, but never compromise, on the core ideas they believe vital to the nation’s security.

“Reagan’s no-surrender pledge was his unwavering commitment to the Strategic Defense Initiative, that is, to build and deploy a system to shoot down Soviet nuclear missiles headed for our cities. With Trump, it’s his rock-solid promise to build ‘an impenetrable physical wall” on our southern border,’ she wrote.

Schlafly then discussed Trump’s proposed wall and explained its importance.

“Donald Trump’s wall is not a provocative, but a neighborly idea to stop the rampant illegality that harms both nations along the U.S.-Mexico border,” she wrote. “With no legitimate objection to erecting a fence, wall or other physical barrier between our two countries, Mexico should be grateful for Trump’s leadership and even agree to help pay for it.”

A wall would not only address the flow of criminals coming across the border, she said, but also the flow of illegal drugs.

“Voters finally have the opportunity to choose a president who will make America first by securing our border and ending one-sided trade deals that favor foreign workers rather than our own,” she said.

Schlafly invoked the title of the book she wrote that helped lay the intellectual foundation for America’s grassroots conservative movement as she closed her final column.

“Trump’s strong stance in his meeting with the Mexican president demonstrates that Donald Trump is the ‘choice, not an echo,'” she wrote.