Donald Trump Stuns LGBT Community With Convention Speaker Announcement.

Silicon Valley billionaire Peter Thiel, a strong supporter of gay marriage as well as a giant in the technology community, will speak at the Republican National Convention next week.

“Many people are uncertain in this election year,” Thiel wrote in a statement to Wired explaining why he is speaking at the convention, “but most Americans agree that our country is on the wrong track. I don’t think we can fix our problems unless we can talk about them frankly.”

Thiel did not reveal exactly what he would say Thursday.

Thiel, who is openly gay, lives in contrast to the Republican National Committee’s platform planks that support the rights of parents to submit their LGBT children to conversion therapy and oppose federal intervention in the right of states to decide which bathrooms transgender people can use.

Thiel’s support for Trump was first noted when he was on a list of California GOP delegates representing the Republican candidate at the convention.

Gregory T. Angelo, president of the Log Cabin Republicans, said, “I’ve long said that were he to become the nominee, Donald Trump would be the most pro-gay candidate the Republican Party has ever had. Thiel’s role as an official speaker at the RNC continues to bolster that assertion.”

According to the initial schedule published Thursday, Thiel is scheduled to speak next Thursday night, along with Heisman Trophy winner Tim Tebow; Rep. Marsha Blackburn, R-Tenn.; Oklahoma Gov. Mary Fallin; Florida Gov. Rick Scott; RNC Chairman Reince Priebus; and Ivanka Trump.

Thiel was the co-founder of PayPal and a former board member of Facebook. A Libertarian, he backed Ron Paul for the presidency in 2012 and, in Republican contests, has supported Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, and former Hewlett-Packard CEO Carly Fiorina.

Thiel made the news recently when it was revealed that he bankrolled lawsuits by Hulk Hogan against Gawker Media, publisher of The Daily Gawker.