Leaked Documents Reveal Democratic Campaign Donors.

Hillary Clinton was once asked which of her enemies she was most proud to call her enemies. She responded, “Well, in addition to the NRA, the health insurance companies, the drug companies, the Iranians … probably the Republicans.”

But according to recently hacked Democratic National Committee documents, while the Democrats, like Clinton, have harsh things to say about their enemies, in private they often reach out their hands to those same entities for campaign donations.

According to the Washington Free Beacon, those documents reveal the DNC has asked coal companies, insurance companies, and even corporations like Walmart for donations to the presidential campaign.

Here’s a list of the companies the DNC has targeted for solicitation, solicited, or from which campaign contributions have already been received: Tobacco company Altria, genetically modified agricultural firm Monsanto, Walmart, McDonald’s, and a gaggle of fossil fuel companies.

Democrats, historically, have lambasted McDonald’s and Walmart for their resistance to minimum wage hikes.

<tweet tweet-id="748849779350777861"><tweet/>.

Health insurers Cigna, Aetna, Humana, and UnitedHealth Group have also been courted. Bernie Sanders often attacked Clinton during the primaries for her close ties to Wall Street, so it may come as a surprise to Sanders’ supporters the very same DNC which sponsored Sanders’ presidential run has solicited the financial giants to support Clinton.

While Clinton considered drug companies her enemies, she seems to have no problem allowing the DNC to solicit funds from those same companies on behalf of her campaign bid for president. Drug companies such as Pfizer, GlaxoSmithKline, Johnson & Johnson, and Eli Lilly were all allegedly targeted by the DNC for campaign contributions.

Wall Street targets included Goldman Sachs, Bank of America, JP Morgan Chase, Credit Suisse, UBS, and the American Bankers Association, supposedly marked as a “high priority” potential donor.