Obama Just Let Something Slip That Could Decimate Hillary’s Election Chances.

In the April issue of The Atlantic, Pres. Obama admits the 2011 U.S. military action against Libya “didn’t work,” and the country has become a failed state.

Earlier this week, Hillary Clinton, who served as secretary of state when the decision was made to intervene in the Libya civil war, conceded the current situation in the country is “deeply regrettable.” The candidate has repeatedly referenced her foreign policy experience as secretary of state as one of her qualifications to be president.

“If there had not been that intervention” by the United States, NATO and other world partners, Clinton said at a Fox News town hall on Monday, “we would be looking at something resembling much more what we see in Syria now.”

On CBS‘ Face the Nation the day before, she stated, “When I look at this, an absence of action by NATO, by Arab League members, would have probably turned Libya into Syria, which I think would have been an even more dangerous situation,” adding, “I think maybe 1,500 people were killed last year [in Libya] compared to probably 150,000 in Syria.”

Regarding the military action against Libya, Obama defended the process, though not the results. “So we actually executed this plan as well as I could have expected: We got a UN mandate, we built a coalition, it cost us $1 billion—which, when it comes to military operations, is very cheap,” the president told The Atlantic’s Jeffrey Goldberg. “We averted large-scale civilian casualties, we prevented what almost surely would have been a prolonged and bloody civil conflict. And despite all that, Libya is a mess.”

“Mess is the president’s diplomatic term; privately, he calls Libya a ‘s–t show,’ in part because it’s subsequently become an ISIS haven…,” writes Goldberg.

Obama blames part of the failure in placing too much faith in Great Britain, France, and Gulf State allies to engage in Libya following deposing Muammar Gaddafi’s regime. The president also points to the intensity of tribal division in the country, as another reason the State Department and other parts of his administration charged with facilitating Libya’s transition to a democracy has not succeeded to date.

Clinton’s decisions as secretary of state during the attacks on the American consulate in Benghazi, which resulted in the deaths of Ambassador Chris Stevens and three other Americans, have come under intense scrutiny.

At the Democrat debate Wednesday night, Clinton blamed the “fog of war” for the failure of the U.S. to come to aid of the State Department employees, and continued to defend the notion that an online video, at least in part, inspired the attacks.