Trump Just Responded To Rubio’s Biggest Attack Yet With 1 Line That Had Debate Crowd In Stitches.

The Fox News debate from Detroit on Thursday night started with a bang when Donald Trump and Marco Rubio were pressed about the personal attacks each has engaged in during the last few weeks.

Moderator Bret Baier started the exchange off by asking Rubio why he decided to attack Trump personally when he had stated last month that he did not want to go that route.

Rubio responded that Donald Trump had been ridiculing and engaging in personal attacks the entire campaign, and the senator finally felt he had to give the billionaire candidate some of his own medicine.

Rubio also pointed out that the media has been rewarding Trump’s behavior by giving him tremendous amounts of airtime, when he engages in the attacks against his rivals.

Trump responded first by saying he should not have called Rubio a lightweight, and then pointed out that the senator had found a new line of attack by mocking his hand size and the relationship it has to another part of his anatomy.

“I have to say this, he hit my hands. Nobody has ever hit my hands, I’ve never heard of this one. Look at those hands, are they small hands?” Trump said.

“He referred to my hands —if they are small, something else must be small. I guarantee you, there’s no problem.”

<tweet tweet-author="@MashableNews" tweet-date="March 4, 2016">Donald Trump knows what you mean when you say he has small hands and he says there’s no problem. Nope. #GOPDebate pic.twitter.com/7eJzbRDcvJ<tweet/>.

Rubio’s comments came on Sunday, The Hill reported.

“He’s always calling me ‘Little Marco.’ I admit, he’s taller than me; he’s like 6’2”,” Rubio said Sunday in Virginia as the crowd roared.

“Which is why I don’t understand why his hands are the size of someone who is 5’2”. You know what they say about men with small hands? You can’t trust them.”

Trump’s attempt not to engage in personal attacks during the debate did not last long, however. Within minutes, he called Rubio “Little Marco” multiple times.