Report: Republican Colin Powell Advised Clinton To Use Private Email.

Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton told federal investigators in July she was advised by former Secretary of State Colin Powell to use a private email account, the New York Times reported late Thursday.

Powell was the nation’s top diplomat under former President George W. Bush.

According to the Times, the information is included in the report the FBI turned over to congressional investigators earlier this week, detailing the bureau’s over three hour interview with Clinton last month.

The Times also cited a new book by political journalist Joe Conason, who detailed a conversation Clinton had in 2009 during a dinner party hosted by another former Secretary of State Madeleine Albright.

Albright served under former President Bill Clinton.

“Toward the end of the evening, over dessert, Albright asked all of the former secretaries to offer one salient bit of counsel to the nation’s next top diplomat,” Conason writes in his book, according to the Times. “Powell told her to use her own email, as he had done, except for classified communications, which he had sent and received via a State Department computer.”

“Saying that his use of personal email had been transformative for the department,” Powell “thus confirmed a decision she had made months earlier — to keep her personal account and use it for most messages,” the passage continued.

The book, titled, Man of the World: The Further Endeavors of Bill Clinton, has not yet been released. The Times says they were provided with an advanced copy.

Powell’s office, when contacted by Reuters, said the former top diplomat couldn’t recall the exact dinner conversation outlined in Conason’s book, but he did remember telling Clinton about his personal email practices.

“He did write former Secretary Clinton an email memo describing his use of his personal AOL email account for unclassified messages and how it vastly improved communications within the State Department,” Powell’s office said in a statement. “At the time there was no equivalent system within the department.”

The statement added that Powell used a separate State Department computer to manage classified information and never used his personal email account to transmit any sensitive information.

FBI Director James Comey announced last month that he would not recommend charges against Clinton for mishandling classified information during her tenure as the nation’s top diplomat, despite the fact that she did communicate information over the server that was classified at the time.

Subsequently, Attorney General Loretta Lynch announced that the Department of Justice would accept Comey’s recommendation and not pursue an indictment against Clinton.