Revealed: More Than 100 Delegates Are Planning To Do Something BIG To Trump If He Doesn’t Do This….

In a snapshot of political attitudes and loyalties that can change with the ebb and flow of the fortunes of the candidates, a recent survey of Republican insiders shows that Donald Trump could be deserted by more than 100 convention delegates once the first round of balloting is over and they can make their own choices.

Amid what the New York Times and Los Angeles Times each called a “rough week” for Trump, and with polls showing rival Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, leading the race in Wisconsin, a story by the website Politco says that “already more than a hundred delegates are poised to break with him on a second ballot.”

The story also noted that only one of the 168 Republican National Committee members publicly supports Trump, with only a few others supporting him privately.

“As far as the stealing of the Trump nomination, that’s a big concern for everybody,” said Diana Orrock, an RNC committeewoman from Nevada who openly supports Trump.

If Cruz wins Wisconsin’s contest Tuesday, media outlets estimate Trump needs to win between 57 and 60 percent of the remaining delegates to have a first-ballot victory, a far higher figure than his efforts to date.

As the chance grows that there will be no clear winner by the time of the GOP convention in Cleveland, Republican officials are accelerating plans to deal with a contested convention.

Reince Priebus, the GOP chairman, this past week announced the creation of a website to explain the process of a contested convention.

“ConventionFacts.gop is a tool for voters to learn about convention delegates, rules, and how the overall process works in a simple, easy to understand format,” he said. “Conventions are democracy in action and our Party’s gathering in Cleveland will be an exciting, transparent, and fair process.”

The website fivethirtyeight noted that the way states select delegates works against Trump.

“Trump’s delegate problems stem from two major issues,” writes Nate Silver. “One is his lack of organization: Trump just recently hired a strategist to oversee his delegate-selection efforts; Cruz has been working on the process for months. The other is his lack of support from ‘party elites.’ The people who attend state caucuses and conventions are mostly dyed-in-the-wool Republican regulars and insiders, a group that is vigorously opposed to Trump. Furthermore, some delegate slots are automatically given to party leaders and elected officials, another group that strongly opposes Trump, as evident in his lack of endorsements among them.”