Revealed: Here Are The Conservatives The Establishment Has Blacklisted For Doing THIS.

In the political version of The Blacklist, the alleged criminals are conservatives who have committed the so-called offense of supporting Republican presidential front-runner Donald Trump.

The idea of compiling a list of those who should be shunned for supporting Trump gathered steam this past week as a number of writers suggested such a list was important.

Amanda Carpenter, a former aide to Sen. Ted Cruz was one of the first to cheer on the idea when she took to Twitter.

“Has anyone compiled the definitive list of conservatives who should be blackballed for supporting Trump? I will if it doesn’t exist,” she tweeted. She later listed an array of more than 60 names of conservatives to be shunned.

Amid responses from some to create websites that would identify those blacklisted, The Blaze’s Matt Walsh provided a philosophical justification for a blacklist, saying it is necessary to “identify the traitors and remember their names.”

Those listed by Walsh included Sean Hannity, Ann Coulter, Bill O’Reilly, Laura Ingraham, Sarah Palin, Fox News, Chris Christie, Ben Carson, Sen. Jeff Sessions (R-Ala.), The Drudge Report, Breitbart, Jerry Falwell Jr. and Robert Jeffress.

“We do this not out of spite, but in keeping with the Bible’s many warnings about false prophets. Scripture urges us to ‘expose the unfruitful works of darkness’ (Ephesians 5:11) and avoid becoming partners with those ‘who deceive with empty words’ (Ephesians 5:6). Colossians implores us not to be ‘taken captive by deceit,’” Walsh wrote.

“We’re warned in 2 Timothy that the time will come when people will not want to hear the truth, so they will surround themselves with frauds who tell them what their ‘itching ears want to hear.’ I believe we have arrived at that moment, and it is now urgent that we specifically identify these frauds and false teachers. This is not a fun or polite process, but it is necessary, so we must get on with it,” he wrote.

Not everyone is on board.

“This is sophomoric,” Alicia Powe wrote on Young Conservatives. “Blacklisted?”

“It’s not like Trump is less ideologically pure than Mitt Romney, the father of Obamacare,” Powe wrote. “Under the establishment’s leadership we have Obamacare, a $20-plus trillion dollar budget, the weakest military in many decades, ISIS, a disastrous VA, and illegals coming across the border like they’re crossing a street.”

“Desperate times call for desperate measures, but is this the best they can do?” she wrote. “To see such a tribal-minded movement coming from conservatives – who claim to be ardent defenders of the Constitution and freedom of expression – is especially disgraceful.”

Patrick Howley, writing on Breitbart, shared those sentiments.

“Why not a ‘blacklist’ for conservatives who sold out the movement, and their own country, by embracing amnesty and the doctrine of open borders? Why not a ‘blacklist’ for those who wrecked the New American Century within three years by staging a trillion-dollar nation-building experiment in the Middle East?” he wrote.

“Why not a ‘blacklist’ for those currently trying to broker the convention to throw out the will of the people, or those who would rather support Hillary Clinton because at least they’ll still be able to gin up donations for opposing her?” he added.

h/t: Breitbart.