Newspaper Says Clinton Needs To Quit Political Calculations, Show Compassion For Louisiana.

Almost a week after Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump brought inspiration and supplies to the hard-pressed residents of flood-ravaged Louisiana, a Baton Rouge newspaper called on Democrat candidate Hillary Clinton to at least do something.

The Advocate had chided President Barack Obama on Aug. 17 for continuing his vacation in Martha’s Vineyard instead of making an immediate visit to Louisiana to help bring the state the support it needed after the floods of the previous weekend.

Obama did visit the state, but not until the week after the newspaper’s editorial telling him to leave his “playground for the posh and well-connected” and visit “the most anguished state in the union.”

Trump visited the state Aug. 19. By comparison, Clinton had said she would visit at some later time, and to date has only issued a tweet about the state, where thousands of people remain homeless due to flooding that damaged an estimated 40,000 homes.

That did not set well with the editors of The Advocate, who aimed their Friday editorial at Clinton.

“If she wants to be the next president, Hillary Clinton should act like one, and come to Louisiana,” the editorial read.

The newspaper said that given the extensive nature of the damage, whoever the next president is should know about it first hand.

“That’s reason enough for Clinton to visit the state and see the damage for herself, and she’s made a bad decision in avoiding Louisiana since the waters receded,” the editorial said.

The editorial noted Clinton’s comment that she wanted to visit when she would not interfere with the relief efforts, but did not buy her argument.

” … if the incumbent president of the United States can visit Louisiana without doing apparent harm to flood response operations, then surely the woman who’s a leading contender to succeed him can do the same,” it read.

The newspaper urged Clinton to make a decision on a basis other than its impact on the Electoral College.

“Louisiana is a reliably red state with few electoral votes, and Clinton isn’t likely to flip it to her column in the coming election,” the newspaper admitted.

“But Louisiana’s crisis should be a call to conscience and compassion, not the cold calculus of electoral math,” it added.