Kasich Just Revealed The 1 Thing He Thinks The GOP Will Do, And He’s Willing To Bet Money On It.

Ohio Gov. John Kasich received an enthusiastic reception Friday afternoon at the nation’s largest conservative convention.

At CPAC, Fox News Sean Hannity asked Kasich, who is currently fourth in the Republican delegate count, to lay out his path to becoming the party’s nominee in July.

The candidate said he does not believe any of his rivals will secure the 1,237 delegates needed to clinch the nomination heading into the Republican convention, which happens to be in Cleveland. Therefore, the nominee would be chosen through a brokered convention.

Hannity followed up by asking if the governor believes that is his only path to being the Republican choice. Kasich (who has 25 delegates to date) said it is possible for him to secure the nomination during the primary elections, but it will be difficult. He explained after winning his home state of Ohio on Mar. 15, he would have to take 68 percent of the delegates thereafter.

The candidate pointed out that Sen. Ted Cruz (who has 231 delegates) must win 58 percent of the 1,237 outstanding delegates from this point forward, while Sen. Marco Rubio (who has 110 delegates) must win 64 percent. Trump, with 329 delegates, needs to garner 52 percent.

Kasich is coming off a strong debate Thursday night, when many commentators called him “the grownup on the stage” amidst the food fight between the top three contenders.

The candidate is hoping to win delegates in his neighboring state of Michigan this Tuesday.

Meanwhile, CPAC attendees learned Friday that Donald Trump backed out of the conference. Many of the speakers have had less than kind words to say about his candidacy, calling into doubt his conservative credentials.

Based on audience reactions, the majority of those attending shares those views.

“We are very disappointed Donald Trump has decided at the last minute to drop out of CPAC,” the ACU said in statement. “This comes at a critical time in our movement’s history. His decision sends a clear message to grassroots conservatives.”

The Trump campaign said the candidate will be attending events in Kansas and Florida on Saturday, CNN reported.

Sen. Ted Cruz is slated to address CPAC on Friday, while Sen. Marco Rubio is scheduled for Saturday.

CPAC is conducting a straw poll of candidates, the results of which will be announced on Saturday afternoon. Based on crowd response during various sessions, Sens. Cruz and Rubio enjoy the strongest support among the CPAC attendees.