Breaking: Trump Campaign Just Made Unexpected Announcement About Sarah Palin That Will Surprise Fans.

As of early Friday, it appears that when Wyoming’s Republican Party gathers for its convention on Saturday, there will no one representing the campaign of Republican candidate Donald Trump, effectively surrendering the contest to Sen. Ted Cruz.

Former Alaska Gov. Sarah Palin had been scheduled to attend the event in Casper, Wyo., but on Thursday, the Republican Party of Wyoming announced she wasn’t coming.

“The Donald Trump campaign has informed the Wyoming Republican Party that Sarah Palin, the scheduled surrogate speaker for the presidential candidate, will not be attending the State GOP Convention,” the release said. “Former Gov. Palin was scheduled to speak to the convention delegates Saturday morning between 10-11 a.m. along with presidential candidate Ted Cruz and John Kasich surrogate Gov. Butch Otter of Idaho.”

“The Trump campaign has not indicated whether another one of Trump’s surrogates will be in Casper this Saturday morning,” the release added.

No reason has been given by the Trump campaign as to why Palin will not be present at the convention.

Wyoming will select 23 of its 29 delegates Saturday at the state convention. Even before Palin’s withdrawal, Cruz was favored to win most if not all of the delegates.

” … in the case of Wyoming, the Cruz train has already left the station,” wrote Time magazine. “Cruz’s domination in the county conventions followed his campaign’s aggressive organizing in the state’s March 1 precinct caucuses, and set the stage for another likely rout this weekend. (Of the 1,590 votes cast in the March 12 county convention, 1128 were for Cruz.)”

The state’s Republican party leader said the process was fair, but required candidates to put forth an effort.

“There’s no question this process favors people, it favors candidates who are involved—who are willing to put in the time and the effort to participate in the process,” Wyoming GOP chairman Matt Micheli said of the caucus and convention process.