Breaking: Bernie Sanders Just Got A MAJOR Win That Could Shake Up The Dem Race In This State.

A judge in Ohio issued a ruling today that should make Democratic presidential candidate Bernie Sanders smile.

The judge ruled that 17-year-olds who will turn 18 prior to the November presidential election are eligible to vote in the state’s primary on Tuesday.

This could prove beneficial for Sanders, whose rhetoric throughout the campaign has struck a chord with younger voters. His team had filed a lawsuit aimed at changing the existing law barring 17-year-olds from voting in the primary, even if they would be eligible to vote on election day.

The ruling made by the judge was in response to another case. However, it produced the result that Sanders was seeking.

Joh Husted, Ohio Secretary of State, voiced his disapproval of the ruling. “This last-minute legislating from the bench on election law has to stop,” Husted said. “Our system cannot give one county court the power to change 30 years of election law for the entire state of Ohio, 23 days into early voting and only four days before an election.”

Husted continued by saying, “We will appeal this decision because if there is a close election on Tuesday we need clarity from the Supreme Court to make sure that ineligible voters don’t determine the outcome of an election.”

While it’s assumed the ruling should benefit Sanders because of his popularity among young voters, the fact remains the Vermont senator trails Hillary Clinton in polling in Ohio by a substantial margin. The Real Clear Politics average of three polls conducted the first week of March has Clinton leading by an average of 20 points, with a CNN/ORC poll giving Clinton a whopping 30-point advantage.

Twitter users posted their thoughts on the Ohio judge’s ruling.

One user tweeted:

<tweet tweet-author="@SilverSummerSun" tweet-date="March 11, 2016">@thehill I teach that age group. They have no business voting for anything.<tweet/>.

While another posted this tweet:

<tweet tweet-author="@kokopatti" tweet-date="March 11, 2016">@thehill@KarenDoe50 needs those younguns who have never had a job supported by mom and dad so they do believe it’s all free<tweet/>.

h/t: The Hill.