The Email That Makes Benghazi Look Way Worse Was Just Released- Hillary And Obama Hid It For Years.

Even as terrorists attacked a U.S. diplomatic compound in Benghazi, Libya, on Sept. 11, 2012, the Hilary Clinton-run State Department was told that military forces were ready to come to its aid, according to a newly uncovered email previously kept secret.

“The Obama administration and Clinton officials hid this compelling Benghazi email for years,” said Judicial Watch President Tom Fitton. “The email makes readily apparent that the military was prepared to launch immediate assistance that could have made a difference, at least at the CIA Annex. The fact that the Obama Administration withheld this email for so long only worsens the scandal of Benghazi.”

The email, released by Judicial Watch, was sent at 7:19 p.m. EST by then-Department of Defense Chief of Staff Jeremy Bash, more than three hours after the initial Benghazi attack and about an hour after a second attack at a CIA Annex almost a mile from the main compound. Two Americans were killed at each location.

“I just tried you on the phone but you were all in with S (an apparent reference to Clinton),” it reads.

“After consulting with General Dempsey, General Ham and the Joint Staff, we have identified the forces that could move to Benghazi. They are spinning up as we speak. They include a (REDACTED),” it said.

“Assuming Principals agree to deploy these elements, we will ask State to procure the approval from host nation. Please advise how you wish to convey that approval to us (REDACTED),” it read.

The email was sent to Jacob Sullivan, Clinton’s deputy chief of staff; Under Secretary of State for Political Affairs Wendy Sherman; and Deputy Secretary of State Thomas Nides.

The email appears to contradict 2013 comments from former Secretary of Defense Leon Panetta that “time, distance, the lack of an adequate warning, events that moved very quickly on the ground prevented a more immediate response.”

Judicial Watch, in releasing the email, noted congressional testimony by Gregory Hicks, the former deputy chief of mission for the U.S. Embassy in Tripoli, Libya.

Hicks said the four Americans killed in the attack might have been saved “if we had been able to scramble a fighter or aircraft or two over Benghazi as quickly as possible after the attack commenced.”

“I believe there would not have been a mortar attack on the annex in the morning because I believe the Libyans would have split. They would have been scared to death that we would have gotten a laser on them and killed them,” Hicks testified.

Staff for the House Select Committee on Benghazi said the panel has the full, unredacted Bash email and will address the email in its final report.