Fox News Just Uncovered A Game-Changing Video That Hillary Can’t Hide From- And She’ll Want To….

In a 2013 video uncovered by Fox News, a veteran diplomat said former Secretary Clinton put speed over security when handling sensitive information.

“This new video again puts Clinton on defense, forcing the former Secretary of State to explain why she put U.S. intelligence at risk by exclusively (using) a private email account for government business,” said Jeff Bechdel, communications director for the conservative super PAC America Rising.

The video shows Wendy Sherman, who was undersecretary of state in 2013, outlining the differences between serving at the State Department in the administrations of President Bill Clinton and President Obama.

“Now we have BlackBerrys, and it has changed the way diplomacy is done,” Sherman said in the 2013 video.

“Things appear on your BlackBerrys that would never be on an unclassified system. But you’re out traveling, you’re trying to negotiate something. You want to communicate with people, it’s the fastest way to do it,” she said.

In Sherman’s speech to the American Foreign Service Association, she cited Clinton’s September 2011 visit to the United Nations in which she and Lady Ashton of the European Union used BlackBerrys to discuss terms of a Middle East peace.

“So they sat there, as they were having the meeting, with their BlackBerrys, transferring language back and forth between them and between their aides to multitask in a quite a new fashion,” said Sherman. “To have the meeting and at the same time be working on the Quartet statement.”

The Middle East Quartet consists of the U.S., the U.N., the E.U., and Russia. It exists to help encourage a Middle East peace. Past correspondence on the Quartet statement was so sensitive that the State Department considered the emails as classified and redacted details of past emails released in the investigation of Clinton’s use of a private email server while Secretary of State.

“Despite her numerous protests, evidence continues to grow showing Secretary Clinton knowingly sent and received classified material using her private email,” Bechdel said in a statement.