Trump’s Son Says The Battle Against Hillary Will Be Unprecedented.

As Donald Trump began tweeting out his new nickname for Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton, his son said The Donald is just getting started.

Eric Trump, son of the Republican presidential front-runner, talked politics Monday on Fox and Friends.

“(Hillary) turned her attention to us — for the last two weeks she’s been running negative ads against us in New York,” Eric Trump said. “She’s already turned her attention to us, which is a great compliment because she’s effectively saying we’re going to be the nominee, and he’s going to be the nominee. So, it’s going to be an interesting battle between the two of them.”

“There’s a lot of things — there’s a lot of fuzz on her record, to say the least, and he’s certainly going to go after it,” Eric Trump said.

“He’s going to go after her in a way that no one has gone after her before,” he added.

Eric Trump’s comments came after his father unveiled a new nickname for Clinton in a Sunday tweet.

“Crooked Hillary Clinton is spending a fortune on ads against me. I am the one person she doesn’t want to run against. Will be such fun!” Trump tweeted.

<tweet tweet-id="721695114943442946"><tweet/>.

At least one commentator liked the moniker.

“‘Crooked Hillary’ kind of flows off the lips, doesn’t it? It hits Hillary where she’s most vulnerable, even with Democrats wary of her history of obfuscation and duplicitousness,” wrote Larry O’Connor on Hot Air.

Trump coined the phrase during a Saturday rally in Watertown, N.Y.

“I’m not controlled by special interests, by the lobbyists. They control Crooked Hillary,” he said then.

Donald Trump also criticized Clinton during a rally Friday in Hartford, Conn.

“Hillary Clinton is a joke,” he said. “Hillary Clinton knows nothing about trade. She knows nothing about business, except getting business and money into her own account, using what she’s got to get it in.”

“Remember when she said she was poor, she had no money, and she had tens of millions of dollars?” Trump said Friday. “She’s a liar when you think, right?”

On Monday, Eric Trump knocked a statement by actor George Clooney that an “obscene amount of money” was raised in his $353,000-a-plate fundraiser for Clinton.

“I was shaking my head,” Eric Trump said. “It made no sense. Was that not the most hypocritical statement in the history of statements?”

He also shored up his father’s argument on the way states like Colorado and Wyoming award delegates. In both cases, rival Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, received all the delegates at stake.

“Here you have a little boys’ club and they decide who they want to be commander in chief,” said Eric Trump. “We live in America. People get to vote. The fact that my father is millions of votes ahead, yet delegates keep on getting stripped from him, it really is a broken system.”