Romney Will Not Be Present For Trump Nomination.

Former presidential candidate Mitt Romney, who helped launch the #NeverTrump movement with a March speech denouncing Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump, will not be present to see Trump officially become the GOP’s standard bearer.

“Governor Romney has no plans to attend convention,” a spokesman said Thursday, speaking of the Republican National Convention, which will be held in Cleveland in July.

The absence of the 2012 GOP nominee, coupled with the previously announced absence of Sen. John McCain from the convention, means the party’s two most recent presidential nominees will not be in attendance.

Early in his campaign, Trump attacked Romney, calling him, among other things, “a failed candidate.” Romney fired back in March, attacking Trump for “the greed, the showing off, the misogyny, the absurd third grade theatrics” of his campaign and generally impugning Trump’s character and qualifications for the position.

Trump has said that given his criticism of Romney it would be “very hard” for Romney to attend, but downplayed the issue.

“I don’t care,” Trump said. “He can be there if he wants.”

What Romney has said privately about Trump it is a different story, according to former Sen. Scott Brown, R-Mass.

“I’ve heard from many sources that he has said, indirectly or directly to them … if it’s between Hillary and Trump, Trump wins,” Brown said on Boston Herald Radio’s Morning Meeting program. “So we’ll see what they do in the privacy of the voting booth.”

The New York Times characterized many Republican’s perception of Trump’s path to the nomination as a “journey from denial and resistance to grudging acceptance, and even peace, with the Trump nomination.”

Some have urged Republicans to focus on the general election and what is at stake.

“There will be some that will take days and weeks to realize that there are two choices and that it’s between Donald Trump and the Democratic nominee, which most of us believe will be Hillary Clinton,” said Gov. Phil Bryant of Mississippi, a former backer of Sen. Ted Cruz, who has since called on Republicans to back Trump. “Realistically, and I think Republicans are realists, this is an opportunity to have a Republican president sitting in the Oval Office.