Trump Stands Tall On Proposal For Border Wall With Mexico.

It is, indeed going to be huge.

During an interview with Sean Hannity that aired Wednesday night, Donald Trump discussed one of his signature proposals — the wall that would run along the southern U.S. border with Mexico.

When he first described the wall in December, he said, “We’re going to do a wall; we’re going to have a big, fat beautiful door on the wall; we’re going to have people come in, but they’re going to come in legally,.”

Hannity asked Trump Wednesday if the project was still in Trump’s plans.

“We’re going to build a wall. Yeah, 100 percent. It’s so simple,” Trump said “Bush and even Obama sent people back so we can be more aggressive with that, but we can follow the laws.”

“We are going to build a wall,” Trump added. He then had a question for the crowd.

“Who’s going to pay for it?”

“Mexico!” the audience screamed back.

Hannity asked Trump how high the wall would be.

“I think the height could be 35 to 45 feet. That’s a good height. That’s a good height. Anywhere in that neighborhood. Could be higher,” he told Hannity, to cheers from the crowd at the Austin, Texas, event where Trump spoke.

“It’s not a question of wanting (to build it). We have no choice,” he said. “It’ll get done so quickly your head will spin.”

During the Austin town hall, Hannity asked Trump if he would deport all illegal immigrants or just “the bad ones.”

“The bad ones, the gang members?” Trump asked, turning the question into an audience participation project.

“Out!” the crowd yelled.

“The ones who have been here 20 years,” Trump asked. “Do we throw them out or work with them?”

The crowd applauded.

Hannity interjected: “So you’re saying there will be some flexibility?”

Trump rode the will of the crowd as he replied.

“Everybody agrees we get the bad ones out,” Trump said. “People feel that throwing out a family that has been here a long time is a tough thing.”

In the past, Trump has said his proposed wall might be 40 to 50 feet high. His cost estimates have been between $8 billion and $12 billion, but he has said from the start that he will ensure that Mexico pays for the wall.