Trump Addresses Munich Attack: ‘This Cannot Continue.’

On Friday, at least nine people were killed and 21 were wounded in yet another terrorist attack, this time occurring near the Olympia shopping mall – one of Germany’s largest shopping centers – in Munich.

Arriving upon the scene, police began searching for active shooters, believing there may be as many as three, but finding only one man — an as of yet unidentified 18-year-old Iranian-German — who killed himself after unleashing devastation upon the innocent.

So far, no terrorist organization has claimed responsibility for the heinous slaying, leading law enforcement authorities to question whether this was an isolated incident or part of something larger.

In response to the tragic loss of life, Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump issued the following statement:

“Our prayers are with all those affected by the horrible attacks in Munich. This cannot continue. The rise of terrorism threatens the way of life for all civilized people, and we must do everything in our power to keep it from our shores.”

Trump, who has postured himself as the “law and order candidate,” has taken a hardline stance against Islamic terrorism since the San Bernardino and Paris terrorist attacks, which occurred last year.

In his nomination acceptance speech Thursday evening, Trump laid out his concerns that the West was facing an existential threat against such terrorism and needed to adjust its policies quickly.

“Our convention occurs at a moment of crisis for our nation. The attacks on our police, and the terrorism of our cities, threaten our very way of life. Any politician who does not grasp this danger is not fit to lead our country,” said Trump in his speech.

Not a full day later, Trump became the subject of derision from political opponents on the left, who accused the Republican candidate of doom and gloom.

One such politician was President Barack Obama, who claimed Trump was not addressing reality.

“This idea that America is somehow on the verge of collapse, this vision of violence and chaos everywhere, doesn’t really jibe with the experience of most people,” said Obama.

Just three hours later, Obama found himself in the awkward position of addressing Friday’s attack in Munich. Although he acknowledged that the event was tragic, he maintained that it does not change his past statements.

“Terrorism is a real threat, and nobody knows that better than me. One of the best ways of preventing it is making sure we don’t divide our own country, that we don’t succumb to fear,” he said.

In a CNN public poll conducted on Thursday, however, 73 percent of Americans accepted that Trump’s outline for America was the “right direction” compared to only 24 percent who said otherwise.

The terrorist attack in Munich is now one of many which have occurred across the world in recent weeks and follows upon the heels of the Bastille Day attack in Nice, France — where 84 were killed and roughly 200 wounded.

Unnervingly, prosecutors investigating that attack have determined the perpetrator did not act alone, receiving help from as many as five other individuals.