Democrats Lose Court Battle Over Ohio’s ‘Golden Week’ Of Early Voting.

An effort by Democrats to restore a week of voting in Ohio when voters could register and vote at the same time has suffered a setback at the hands of a federal court.

The 6th Circuit Court of Appeals on Tuesday overturned a lower court ruling and sided with the state of Ohio to uphold a 2014 law that eliminated the week of early voting that fell before the registration deadline.

Democrats had sued after Ohio eliminated what had been called the “Golden Week,” saying that wiping out that extra week disproportionately burdened African-American voters.

In May, a U.S. District Court judge sided with the Democrats, saying the law violated the Constitution and the Voting Rights Act. That ruled was overturned Tuesday.

Circuit Court Judge David McKeague, writing for the majority in the 2-1 decision, said Ohio’s remaining 29-day early voting period “is really quite generous.”

“Federal judicial remedies, of course, are necessary where a state law impermissibly infringes the fundamental right to vote. No such infringement having been shown in this case, judicial restraint is in order,” McKeague wrote.

“Proper deference to state legislative authority requires that Ohio’s election process be allowed to proceed unhindered by the federal courts,” he wrote.

“It’s as if plaintiffs disregard the Constitution’s clear mandate that the states (and not the courts) establish election protocols, instead reading the document to require all states to maximize voting convenience,” McKeague added.

Judge Jane Branstetter Stranch, in her dissent, said just because discrimination was not obvious did not mean it was not there.

“(T)hose who seek to discriminate against a segment of the population do not trumpet their intentions — or do not do so publicly,” Stranch wrote.

The Ohio suit was among those where Marc Elias, a Democratic election law expert and general counsel to Democrat Hillary Clinton’s presidential campaign, sought to attack changes states made in voting laws.

Republican Secretary of State Jon Husted applauded the ruling.

“Ohio offers a generous number of days, hours and ways to vote — making us one of the easiest states in which to cast a ballot,” Husted said in a statement. “I hope the Democrats will end their wasteful lawsuits so we can all move forward with this election.”

Ohio Democratic Party chairman David Pepper said the party is considering filing an appeal.

“The Ohio Democratic Party took on this case because Golden Week has been a popular and cherished feature of our elections for a decade and has allowed tens of thousands of Ohioans to safely and conveniently cast a ballot,” Pepper said. “The decision today is a reminder that we all need to exercise that right this fall and cast our ballot for candidates who will protect and expand the right to vote, not restrict it.”