Right After This Big-Name Senator Endorsed Trump, The Establishment Did Something SICK.

Alabama Sen. Jeff Sessions caused quite a stir when he went on the record endorsing Donald Trump.

Sessions is a well respected tea party conservative. On Sunday, he appeared at a Trump rally where he officially pledged his support to the Trump campaign.

An article written by National Review’s Ian Tuttle — headlined The Rats Are Scurrying: Republican Officeholders Who Endorse Trump Are Sellouts — accuses Trump of exploiting a phony perception of a failed Republican Party to win the nomination. Tuttle also asserts that Republicans have aided and abetted the country’s leftward lurch.

Sessions is not the only well-known Republican to recently endorse Trump. Last week, New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie announced that he would support the Trump campaign.

Tuttle’s article also attacked Christie by accusing him of endorsing Trump in an attempt to gain a position in the Trump administration. He calls Christie’s endorsement “the most transparent display of affection since Judas Iscariot’s Gethsemane smooch.”

Tuttle added, “There are pimps and prostitutes with more equitable relationships.”

Later in the piece, Tuttle wrote, “Speaking of prostitutes: On Sunday, Alabama senator Jeff Sessions offered his own endorsement.”

In an article from Politico, Eli Stoklos says the endorsements from Christie and Sessions can be seen as an indication of growing acceptance that he (Trump), not Cruz or Marco Rubio or anyone else, is likely to be the GOP nominee.

Trump jokingly said, “I hate to say it, I’m becoming mainstream. I’m getting all these endorsements.”

Session’s endorsement of Trump is not good news for Texas Sen. Ted Cruz. Cruz may need the tea party votes as well as the evangelicals if he’s going to have a chance to win the nomination.

“I told Donald Trump, this isn’t a campaign, this is a movement,” Sessions said when endorsing Trump. “The American people are not happy with their government.”