Dennis Prager Tells #NeverTrump Conservatives They Need To Change Course.

Many conservatives have said they will not vote for presumptive Republican nominee Donald Trump under any circumstances. This collection of conservatives has become a major part of what is now known as the #NeverTrump movement. The movement has many prominent members including National Review’s Jonah Goldberg, syndicated radio host Glenn Beck and the Daily Wire’s Ben Shapiro.

But one prominent conservative, syndicated radio host Dennis Prager, disagrees with their position and is letting them know he believes they are wrong and need to realize it before it is too late.

“I devoted many hours of radio and many columns to criticizing Trump. His virtually assured nomination has therefore caused me grief as an American, a Republican and a conservative. That his character defects, gaps in knowledge on some important issues, and lack of identifiably conservative principles came to mean little to so many Republican voters is quite troubling,” writes Prager, seeming to understand the opposition to the New York billionaire.

He admits that conservatives in the #NeverTrump movement are good people and have a point, but ultimately Prager thinks their logic is flawed.

“In the final analysis, I do not find their arguments compelling,” he writes. “Take the ‘conscience’ argument that one can sleep with a clear conscience by not voting for Trump. I don’t find it compelling because it means that your conscience is clear after making it possible for [Hillary] Clinton or any other Democrat to win.”

Prager continues, “In fact, the ‘conscience’ argument is so weak that Goldberg — to his credit — published a column two days ago titled “‘Sorry, I Still Won’t Ever Vote for Trump.’ He wrote, ‘If the election were a perfect tie, and the vote fell to me and me alone, I’d probably vote for none other than Donald Trump.'”

Prager believes there are no good options, but that sometimes the lesser of two evils will have to do.

“The choice this November is tragic. As it often happens in life, this choice is between bad and worse, not bad and good,” he writes. “But America has made that choice before. When forced to choose between bad and worse, we supported Joseph Stalin against Adolf Hitler, and we supported right-wing authoritarians against Communist totalitarians.”

Prager goes on to list reasons why a victory for Trump, despite his flaws, would be the preferable outcome for conservatives.

<tweet tweet-author="just look at Western Europe" tweet-date="
— Reduce job-killing regulations on large and small businesses.
— Lower the corporate income tax and bring back hundreds of billions of offshore dollars to the United States.
— Continue fracking, which the left, in its science-rejecting hysteria, opposes.">Here, then, are nine reasons (there are more) why a conservative should prefer a Trump presidency to a Democrat presidency:<tweet/>.

He concludes that these reasons make the best case for why conservatives should get behind Trump and he doesn’t understand how anyone can see otherwise because to him, liberals pose such a big threat to the future of America that it is not an option to “refuse to vote for the only person who can stop them.”