New Polls Show Double-Digit Gaps in Republican Contest.

The candidate labeled “a leader who has faced tough real-life situations before, and won” continues to lead the Republican presidential field, hitting a new high mark in one national survey while holding onto his lead in another.

In his highest percentage to date, Donald Trump achieved 45 percent support among Republican voters in a new Fox News poll released Thursday. Trump’s support rose four percentage points since the last Fox national poll in March.

There’s more to the story. Not only did Trump achieve a record high, a drop in support for rival Sen. Ted Cruz gave Trump an 18-point lead over Cruz, according to the Fox poll.

In March, Cruz had 38 percent support in a Fox poll. The most recent poll shows Cruz has fallen to 27 percent. Ohio Gov. John Kasich was rising as Cruz was falling. Kasich was at 25 percent support in the most recent Fox poll, up eight points from March.

The Fox poll had a margin of error of 4.5 points.

A CBS poll showed things a little differently.

In the CBS poll, Trump’s lead over Cruz remained in double digits, but narrowed from March’s 20-point gap to 13 points. Trump was supported by 42 percent of the Republicans surveyed in the CBS poll, a four-point dip from March. Cruz rose three points in the CBS survey to 29 points, while Kasich was at 18 percent, down two points from March.

The margin of error for the CBS poll was six points.

Rep. Chris Collins, R-N.Y., noted in a guest column in Saturday’s New York Times that anger over the current political climate, coupled with Trump’s background, are fueling the GOP leader’s rise.

“For too long the political class has denied everyday Americans a real voice in government. This election, voters are finding a leader who is listening to them over the clamor of Washington special interests, and voters are speaking loud and clear. They want a leader like Mr. Trump; a chief executive, not a chief politician,” Collins wrote.

“America cannot afford another professional politician residing in the White House. We need a leader who has faced tough real-life situations before, and won,” he wrote. “To fix the mistakes made by President Obama, our next president needs to speak frankly about the problems that exist, explain how he or she will correct them and have the fortitude to take necessary actions, no matter how unpopular they would be with Washington elites.”