After ISIS’ Death Order On Down Syndrome Babies, Sarah Palin Unleashed 4 Words On Them.

Defiance and determination radiates from the challenge former Alaska Gov. and Republican vice presidential candidate Sarah Palin sent ISIS after she learned that the terrorist organization has given its religious blessing to the killing of children with disabilities.

Palin posted her message under a headline that said, “ISIS Declares Death to Children With Down Syndrome.”

“Note to muslim terrorists: Over my dead body,” Palin posted via Facebook and Twitter Monday.

<tweet tweet-id="676489052539912192"><tweet/>.

On her Facebook page, Palin posted a photo of herself and her son, Trig, 6, who has Down Syndrome. The photo quotes Romans 8:31 – “If God is for us, who can be against us?”

ISIS recently authorized its members to kill newborn babies with Down Syndrome and congenital deformities, as well as disabled children. According to the Iraqi activist group Mosul Eye, at least 38 babies between one week and three months old have already been killed since the decree was issued.

Palin’s post resonated with Facebook viewers.

‪”Sorry Sarah, you should have said ‘over their dead bodies‘, because I know you can handle a gun very well!!” posted Sharon Powers Geyer.

‪”Isis declares death on a lot of people and will burn in hell for all eternity for it cause Gods children are precious to him!!! Thanks Sarah!!!” wrote Pete Hidalgo.

‪”This is why ISIS has to be destroyed. They are evil. Children are gifts from God and are to be protected,” said John Krystek.

Palin’s pugnacious posts about ISIS include one last week saying the danger represented by ISIS had been understated in the debate over GOP presidential candidate Donald Trump’s immigration plan.

“When information shows someone comes to America after being in a radical Islamic stronghold, and embraces the Death Cult’s ideology that mandates butchering the innocent – then we are right in calling for shucking the political correctness that is fundamentally transforming America, and finally putting the security of innocent Americans FIRST,” she posted.

“Come together, America, to focus on proactive solutions to protect our children from terrorism, after 7 years of neglect,” she added.