Obama Just Pulled Out The Race Card On Donald Trump In A Major Way.

In an interview with National Public Radio, President Barack Obama castigated Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump for exploiting the fears of working class Americans who have lost their jobs under his administration. Obama also slid the issue of race into the campaign.

“Obama … argued that some of the scorn directed at him personally stems from the fact that he is the first African-American to hold the White House,” the New York Times reported Monday in its story on the interview.

In the interview, Obama said inevitable economic changes cost many working-class people their jobs, and some people have trouble adjusting to that fact.

“Particularly blue-collar men have had a lot of trouble in this new economy, where they are no longer getting the same bargain that they got when they were going to a factory and able to support their families on a single paycheck,” Obama said.

“You combine those things, and it means that there is going to be potential anger, frustration, fear — some of it justified, but just misdirected,” the president added. “I think somebody like Mr. Trump is taking advantage of that. That’s what he’s exploiting during the course of his campaign.”

Trump has based his campaign on the need to reverse Obama’s leadership.

“People are sick and tired of stupid and incompetent people leading our nation,” Trump said last month. “We have incompetent people.”

Do you support Donald Trump? Like the page:

Obama said some of the criticism he takes is due to the fact that he is the first black president.

“If you are referring to specific strains in the Republican Party that suggest that somehow I’m different, I’m Muslim, I’m disloyal to the country, etc. — which unfortunately is pretty far out there, and gets some traction in certain pockets of the Republican Party, and that have been articulated by some of their elected officials — what I’d say there is that that’s probably pretty specific to me, and who I am and my background,” Obama said.

The president also told NPR correspondent Steve Inskeep that he believes he, “may represent change that worries them.”