Lynch Closes The Door on Clinton Probe; Congress Gets Its Turn Next.

Although it was far from the last word to be said about Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton’s email scandal, Attorney General Loretta Lynch took the official last step Wednesday of announcing that the Justice Department would not prosecute Clinton.

“Late this afternoon, I met with FBI Director James Comey and career prosecutors and agents who conducted the investigation of Secretary Hillary Clinton’s use of a personal email system during her time as Secretary of State,” she said in a statement. “I received and accepted their unanimous recommendation that the thorough, year-long investigation be closed and that no charges be brought against any individuals within the scope of the investigation.”

Although the investigation into the emails is closed, the investigation into the investigation is just beginning. On Tuesday, Comey announced that Clinton was “extremely careless” with classified material and in the normal course of administrative sanctions would face some punishment for her actions, but that her activity did not rise to the nature of a crime. That prompted calls for probes to determine how rules could be broken with no one punished.

Clinton’s camp was pleased with the outcome.

<tweet tweet-id="750816332573208576"><tweet/>.

On Thursday, Comey will testify before the House Oversight Committee about the decision not to recommend charges against Clinton. Committee Chairman Rep. Jason Chaffetz, R-Utah, said the questioning will start with Comey, but not end there. “There’s no reason why [the FBI] should not share all that information with Congress and certainly with the American people,” he said.

Lynch will appear before the House Judiciary Committee on Tuesday.

She has been under fire for a private meeting last Monday with former President Bill Clinton aboard her plane at the Phoenix airport. Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump has repeatedly pointed to the case as the epitome of the “rigged system.”

“What’s going on is very big … for Bill Clinton to go to the plane, then to have what happened. … Everybody thought based on what was being said [Hillary Clinton] was guilty. She was guilty. And it turned out that, ‘We’re not going to press charges.’ It’s really amazing,” he said at a Tuesday rally.