Hillary Clinton Visit To Police Memorial Brings Allegations Of Pandering.

Wherever Hillary Clinton goes, the media goes. On Thursday, the presumptive Democratic presidential nominee brought the “usuals” with her in what some are criticizing as just another senseless photo op.

Clinton visited the National Law Enforcement Officers Memorial in Washington, D.C. to pay respects to fallen policemen and women. She brought with her a bouquet of flowers which she laid down at the center of the memorial.

<tweet tweet-id="753634846703030273"><tweet/>.

Last week, Clinton uploaded a picture to her Twitter account after the deaths of Alton Sterling and Philando Castile; it was retweeted over 25,000 times. The image was a quote from the former secretary of state, herself:

<tweet tweet-id="751133678269587456"><tweet/>.

Members of the conservative press accused Clinton of implying police officers were racist — something President Barack Obama indicated earlier this week.

She also sent a tweet saying, if elected president, she would put new guidelines in place for when police could use deadly force.

<tweet tweet-id="751541854806638594"><tweet/>.

Based on those recent comments, her laying flowers at a memorial seemed, to some, contradictory and a selfish act of pandering.

One man wrote, “She waddles up there and could barely bend over to place those flowers. What a pandering POS. Never, never Hillary.”

Another commenter said, “We all know how she feels about the police, and our military for that matter.”

Clinton has been dropping significantly in several recent polls and is now tied with, or in some states trailing, Donald Trump. The FBI investigation into her use of a private email server did not result in criminal charges, but the criticisms of her actions by FBI Director James Comey has weighed heavily on her public image.

In a poll conducted by the New York Times and ABC News, just 28 percent of voters said they had a positive view of Clinton, compared with 33 percent last month. Asked if her email practices were illegal, 46 percent of voters said yes, compared with 23 percent who said using a private server was improper but not illegal. Only 24 percent said she did nothing wrong.