Ben Carson Just Dropped A Powerful 3-Word Response To Trump’s Stunning Tirade.

Donald Trump unleashed a harsh attack on Ben Carson last night, comparing Carson to a child molester.

In the 95 minute rant against everyone from Carson to Hillary Clinton, Trump also called Iowa Republican primary voters “stupid” for supporting Carson.

Now, Carson has responded to Trump’s rant.

Carson’s business manager, Armstrong Williams, stated: “When I spoke with Dr. Carson about this yesterday how we should respond, you know he was so sad about it. He said: ‘Pray for him.'”

Williams added about Carson: “He feels sorry for him because he really likes Mr. Trump.”

Williams then said: “To see him just imploding before our very eyes-it’s just sad to watch.”

Trump also attacked Hillary Clinton and Marco Rubio during the course of the rant.

He said that Clinton is playing the “women’s card big league” and said that Rubio is “weak like a baby.”

Trump also mocked Carson’s story about attacking someone with a hunting knife, an event that Carson says led him to Christ.

Carson said that his knife was stopped by his victim’s belt buckle, something that Trump mocked.

Trump said: “So I have a belt: Somebody hits me with a belt, it’s going in because the belt moves this way. It moves this way, it moves that way. He hit the belt buckle. Anybody have a knife? Want to try it on me? Believe me, it ain’t going to work. You’re going to be successful, but he took the knife and went like this and he plunged it into the belt  and, amazing, the belt stayed totally flat and the knife broke.”

Some Republican presidential candidates came to Carson’s support after the incident.

Carly Fiorina wrote on Facebook: “Anyone can turn a multi-million dollar inheritance into more money, but all the money in the world won’t make you as smart as Ben Carson.”

Do you support Dr. Ben Carson? Like the page:

Republican candidate Lindsey Graham said that Carson is a “good, decent man,” and said that Trump “melted down last night.”

What do you think of Trump’s attack on Carson last night? What do you think of Carson privately saying “pray for him” in response?