BUSTED: Emails Reveal Hillary Aid And CNN Reporter Caught Conspiring To Do THIS At Benghazi Hearing.

The U.S. media has always claimed itself to be an “unbiased” review of “the news,” and that its reporters do only that: report. But a recent review of Hillary Clinton’s emails seems to show that a CNN reporter coordinated with Clinton’s staff to push favorable stories on social media.

The CNN reporter in question is the network’s foreign affairs reporter, Elise Labott; and her communications seem to show that she coordinated with Clinton’s top State Department staffers during the former secretary of state’s January 23, 2013 Senate testimony about the Benghazi attacks.

The emails show that Labott took directions from Clinton staffer Philippe Reines by posting criticisms of Kentucky Republican Senator Rand Paul because he dared to ask tough questions of the secretary during the hearings.

According to the Daily Caller, “Labott also coordinated with Reines to post a favorable quote from Clinton’s testimony, which she gave just a week before she left office.”

After posting some of the tweets she was directed to post, Labott also engaged in high fiving Hillary with the State Department staffer.

“She was great. well done. I hope you are going to have a big drink tonight,” Labbot said to Reines in compliments over Clinton’s performance at the hearings.

And that wasn’t all. The next series of emails shows that Reines asked the “reporter” to join him on an instant messaging service so she could get further instructions. Minutes later, she sent an email saying, “done.”

<tweet tweet-id="669350861383049216"><tweet/>.

According to Phil Kerpen, it appears that the “done” was in reference to a tweet Labott posted on January 23 at 4:01 PM. It was a tweet pushing a claim Clinton made during the testimony.

<tweet tweet-id="294203167808315394"><tweet/>.

Kerpen needled the CNN “reporter,” saying, “A reporter who Tweets on request!”

This isn’t the first time that this CNN “reporter” has revealed her apparent left-wing bias on Twitter. In fact, she was recently suspended for two weeks after slamming Republicans for their vote to put a halt to President Obama’s importation of Syrian “refugees.”

On November 19, Labott tweeted, “House passes bill that could limit Syrian refugees. Statue of Liberty bows head in anguish.” This sort of opining, CNN claimed, violates its code of journalistic practices, and so Labott was suspended.