Hillary Just Insulted The Benghazi Victims In The Absolute Worst Way — ‘Didn’t Lose A….’

Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton boasted Monday night that the regime change strategy she pushed in Libya as Secretary of State “didn’t lose a single person.”

However, astoundingly, Hillary failed to mention the Sept. 11, 2012 terror attack on the U.S. consulate in Benghazi, Libya that resulted in the death of four Americans: U.S. Ambassador Chris Stevens, information officer Sean Smith, and former Navy SEALS Tyrone Woods and Glen Doherty.

Clinton spoke Monday night an Illinois town hall hosted by MSNBC.

“Now, is Libya perfect? It isn’t,” Clinton said. She then contrasted her efforts in Libya with the feckless American response to the Syrian civil war.

“Otherwise, you see what’s happened in Syria with the consequences of millions of people flooding out of Syria … Yes, Libya was a different kind of calculation, and we didn’t lose a single person,” Clinton said. “We didn’t have a problem in supporting our European and Arab allies in working with NATO.”

“To Hillary Clinton, the four male officials and warriors don’t matter at all. They are at best an inconvenience. If they were alive, they would have to be dealt with, but because they are dead, they can be forgotten, rendered unworthy of memory,” he wrote.

Questions linger on many aspects of the Benghazi attack, including whether there was a “stand down” order that prevented a counter-attack that could have saved American lives and whether Clinton had a role in the process if such an order existed. The House Select Committee on Benghazi is expected to produce a report this summer that may answer some of the questions about the attack. Clinton testified before the panel last fall.

After the attack, Clinton publicly blamed the attack on an anti-Islamic video while — according to emails unearthed in the investigation into her private email server — knowing the video had no connection to the planned attack.

Last week, Clinton said the families of the Benghazi victims were wrong in their recollections that she blamed the video for the attack. However, Patricia Smith, mother of Benghazi victim Sean Smith, forcefully rejected Clinton’s claim.

“We were nose-to-nose at the coffin ceremony. She lied to me,” Smith said, “She told me it was the fault of the video. I said ‘are you sure?’ She says ‘yes, that’s what it was… it was the video.’ And she knew full well it wasn’t at that time.”

“… they still just go on with their lying, lying little ways saying that I’m the one that’s wrong. I heard that. I know what she said. I don’t lie. She’s a proven liar and I call her out for that. I know what I heard.”

“There’s a special place in Hell for people like her and I hope she enjoys it there!” Smith said last week.