Benghazi Widow Dorothy Woods Defends Trump Amid Military-Related Controversies.

As Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump faces continued backlash over his public feud with the parents of a solider killed in action, the surviving spouse of another serviceman is coming to his defense.

Dorothy Woods, whose husband, Navy SEAL Ty Woods, was one of four Americans killed in the 2012 attack of the U.S. consulate in Benghazi, Libya, discussed the Trump controversy with radio host Hugh Hewitt on Thursday.

Though empathetic with their grief, Woods said she does not believe Khizr and Ghazala Khan should be immune from criticism because of it.

“First and foremost,” she told Hewitt, “I would never, ever want to wish a Gold Star status on anyone. But I also truly believe that it should never be used as an excuse or a shield when we hear something.”

Regarding Trump’s rhetoric following Khizr Khan’s speech at last month’s Democratic National Convention, Woods shared her belief that none of it was beyond the pale.

“The way I see it,” she elaborated, “no one ever question Major [Humayun] Khan’s sacrifice or his service or his death.”

As a point of clarification, Khan was an Army captain, not a major, at the time of his 2004 death.

Woods continued in her discussion of Trump’s recent behavior by responding to those who believe he should not have accepted a replica Purple Heart from a supporter at an event earlier this week.

“I was disturbed that he was criticized for accepting the Purple Heart,” she said. “Some have said that he should not have accepted it. As someone who has actually served, I understand what it means to give your award to someone. This is what men and women in military do. This is, they feel very strongly about this. It’s an honor to give your award to another.”

Not only did she find the gesture wholly appropriate, Woods concluded that “it would have been an insult” to retired Lt. Col. Louis Dorfman for Trump to have turned it down. She noted that numerous service members have chosen to honor her husband’s sacrifice by leaving their medals at his grave.

“It’s more important for them to honor him than to have that honor for themselves,” she said. “So that’s how I feel about it.”