Omar Mateen Worked With Department Of Homeland Security Contractor.

Officials say Omar Mir Seddique Mateen, the Afghan-American who took the lives of 49 club goers in Orlando early Sunday morning, held two firearms licenses, a security officer license, and was employed by the security firm G4S Secure Solutions USA Inc. for almost a decade.

G4S Secure Solutions is a security contractor for the National Security Agency. According to one source, G4S is responsible for the security of 90 percent of the nation’s nuclear power facilities. It also works closely with U.S. Border Patrol to transport illegal immigrants in some select locales, leaving many to wonder whether or not the DHS has been infiltrated by the Islamic State and its sympathizers.

<tweet tweet-id="742240914727407616"><tweet/>.

G4S receives, according to one report, $234 million in security contracts from DHS, but not without major controversy. According to Paul Sperry of Counter Jihad, “Judicial Watch revealed G4S has been quietly moving and releasing van loads of illegal aliens away from the border to interior American cities.”

Judicial Watch is a government watchdog group responsible for suing the Obama administration more than any other group for access to federal documents via the Freedom of Information Act. Judicial Watch also reported ISIS has been funneling terrorists, with the help of Mexican drug cartels, into the United States through the country’s Southern border with Mexico.

According to Sperry, G4S has been transporting the van loads of Other Than Mexicans (OTM’s) from Tucson, Ariz., and the Mexico border to Phoenix and supposedly releasing them there, leaving some to question if the OTM’s have been infiltrated by radical Islamic terrorists.

According to Sperry, while Mateen’s role within the company was limited to transporting prisoners, it is unclear what security clearances he held. Reportedly, he made ISIS-sympathetic comments to co-workers and had been under investigation by the FBI for having terrorist ties.

Sperry writes G4S works with other federal agencies, as well, “including the departments of State, Interior, Labor, Justice and Energy, and the IRS and Drug Enforcement Administration. The security firm also partners with the U.S. Army, U.S. Air Force and NASA.”

Donald Trump, while being interviewed on Fox and Friends Monday morning, called again for President Obama to resign for not calling the Orlando nightclub attack an act of “radical Islamic terrorism.” Trump said the United States is facing a very serious problem and the country must be strong and fight intelligently against the new threats that exist within the United States.

Trump said if Hillary Clinton is elected president, she’ll bring in many more terrorists to the country under Obama’s refugee resettlement program and Trump says some of those individuals will be worse than Mateen.