Hillary Clinton Says No To Fox News As Sanders Turns Up The Heat.

Democratic presidential front-runner Hillary Clinton has rejected a Fox News proposal for one final debate with rival Sen. Bernie Sanders of Vermont.

“As we have said previously, we plan to compete hard in the remaining primary states, particularly California, while turning our attention to the threat a Donald Trump presidency poses,” Jennifer Palmieri, the Clinton campaign’s communications director, said in a statement.

Fox News Vice President and Washington Managing Editor Bill Sammon expressed the network’s frustration.

“Naturally, Fox News is disappointed that Secretary Clinton has declined our debate invitation, especially given that the race is still contested and she had previously agreed to a final debate before the California primary,” Sammon said.

Sanders, who had said he would debate the front-runner, criticized Clinton on two fronts.

“I was disturbed but not surprised that Secretary Clinton has backed out of the debate,” Sanders said at a rally in California. “I think it’s a little bit insulting to the people of California — our largest state — that she is not prepared to have a discussion with me about how she will help the Californians address the major crises that we face.”

He also issued a statement on the subject, saying, “I also would suggest that Secretary Clinton may want to be not quite so presumptuous about thinking that she is a certain winner. In the last several weeks, the people of Indiana, West Virginia and Oregon have suggested otherwise.”

Clinton is closing in on the number of delegates needed to assure her of the party’s nomination, and needs about 100 delegates to put her over the top. California has 475 delegates.

Although no debate will take place, both candidates have a number of appearances in California in the days before the June 7 primary, the final one of the season.

“You’re going to see me running all over California,” Sanders said Sunday. “We’re going to do everything that we can to get every vote and every delegate that we can and go into that convention with as much momentum as is possible.”