Pence Announces Plans He And Trump Have Made For Releasing Tax Returns.

An NBC reporter who has been asking repeatedly about the release of Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump’s tax returns got an answer he might not have been expecting from Republican vice presidential candidate Mike Pence.

“Donald Trump and I are both going to release our tax returns. I’ll release mine in the next week,” Pence told Chuck Todd of during an interview filed for Sunday’s Meet the Press.

Pence said Trump will be following a different schedule.

“Donald Trump will be releasing his tax returns at the completion of an audit,” he said.

Todd asked Pence whether that would take place before the November election.

“Well, we’ll see,” said Pence.

Trump has said he was not releasing his taxes because several years of his returns are being audited by the Internal Revenue Service. He has come under fire from Democrat nominee HIllary Clinton to release his returns.

During his Meet the Press interview, Pence had harsh words for the character of Clinton.

Clinton is “the most dishonest candidate for president of the United States since Richard Nixon,” Pence said during the interview.

Todd questioned Pence about that position, but Pence was adamant.

“It is a tough charge,” Pence said. “But, come on.”

Earlier this week, Todd pressed Republican National Chairman Reince Priebus on the subject of Trump’s taxes, insisting to Priebus that Trump should release them in order to hold the “higher ground” against Clinton in discussing the Clinton Foundation.

Priebus rejected that idea.

“We know that Hillary Clinton shouldn’t be trusted with national secrets and with the most precious — the most precious information that our country has in their hands. We know she can’t be trusted. Are you equating that the known conclusion that she can’t be trusted with state secrets to what could be in Donald Trump’s taxes?” Priebus said.

Although there is no legal requirement that presidential candidates release their tax returns, it has been the custom of candidates to do so since 1972.