Major Companies Pull Support For Republican Convention.

The Republican National Committee set a goal of raising 64 million dollars for its convention set to take place in Cleveland, Ohio in July. However, while the RNC says they are well on their way to reaching their goal, they are not receiving help from many companies who funded the convention in years past.

With Donald Trump as the presumptive Republican nominee, a number of major companies are either pulling their funding or greatly diminishing what they have previously given to previous conventions.

According to the Independent Journal, Apple has stated it will not fund the Republican convention and will not provide any support. The move may come as no surprise to some as Trump called for an Apple boycott after Apple CEO Tim Cook refused to work with the FBI in unlocking the iPhone belonging to one of the terrorists in the San Bernardino shooting.

Coca Cola’s funding of the Republican convention dropped from 660,000 dollars four years ago to just 75,000 pledged for this year. The company has reportedly taken heat from a civil rights group demanding the beverage company completely defund the Republican convention in light of Trump’s controversial comments involving minorities.

Trump criticized Ford Motor Company for opening up a new factory in Mexico, but it is uncertain whether his criticism had anything to do with the company deciding not to fund the Democratic or the Republican convention in 2016.

Hewlett Packard’s CEO Meg Whitman is a Republican, but has reportedly been critical of Trump throughout the campaign. Trump’s disparaging remarks about former CEO Carly Fiorina may have contributed to HP’s decision not to fund the convention this year, even though the company has a long history of doing so.

The list of companies foregoing funding the Republican Party’s convention goes on, including but not limited to JPMorganChase, Metlife, Microsoft, Motorola, Walgreens, Wells Fargo, and UPS. It seems Trump’s campaign to “Make America Great Again” will go on without the support of many of America’s greatest corporations.