Trump Calls On Obama To Resign.

Just after Omar Mateen carried out his murderous attack on club goers at the Pulse nightclub in Orlando, Donald Trump was calling for change.

In the wake of President Obama’s remarks following the tragedy, Trump called for the president to resign. He said the time for being politically correct is over, and the nation has to act.

Immediately after the attacks, Trump issued a statement, “Last night, our nation was attacked by a radical Islamic terrorist. It was the worst terrorist attack on our soil since 9/11, and the second of its kind in six months. My deepest sympathy and support goes out to the victims, the wounded, and their families.”

Fueled apparently by frustration with Obama, Trump explained the president’s refusal to call the attack a result of “radical Islamic terrorism” is a weakness and he should resign.

“In his remarks today, President Obama disgracefully refused to even say the words ‘Radical Islam.’ For that reason alone, he should step down,” Trump said.

Likewise, Trump went after Hillary Clinton for following Obama’s refusal to use the term as well and called for her to quit her bid for president. “If Hillary Clinton, after this attack, still cannot say the two words ‘Radical Islam’ she should get out of this race for the Presidency,” Trump said.

Emphasizing the urgency of the matter, Trump said, “If we do not get tough and smart real fast, we are not going to have a country anymore. Because our leaders are weak, I said this was going to happen – and it is only going to get worse.”

The Republican candidate appeared to assert his leadership plans by saying, “I am trying to save lives and prevent the next terrorist attack. We can’t afford to be politically correct anymore. We need to protect all Americans, of all backgrounds and all beliefs, from Radical Islamic Terrorism — which has no place in an open and tolerant society.”

Are you on Team Trump? Like the page:

Trump emphasized, “Radical Islam advocates hate for women, gays, Jews, Christians and all Americans. I am going to be a President for all Americans, and I am going to protect and defend all Americans. We are going to make America safe again and great again for everyone.”

Trump will reportedly be delivering a speech on Monday addressing the terrorist attacks in Orlando. According to the Trump campaign, “The speech will be delivered at the New Hampshire Institute of Politics at St. Anselm’s College.”