Bombshell: The FBI Just Gave Hillary Clinton A WHOLE New Reason To Be Worried.

A new line of investigation has been opened in the FBI investigation of Hillary Clinton, and it could have a tremendous impact on the 2016 presidential race.

The FBI was already investigating the Democratic presidential candidate about her email scandal. Now the FBI is looking into whether Clinton was guilty of public corruption while secretary of state, according to three intelligence sources who spoke to Fox News but were not authorized to speak on the record.

Specifically, the bureau is looking into whether State Department business illegally intersected with the Clinton Foundation.

One intelligence source said FBI agents would be “screaming” if a prosecution is not pursued because “many previous public corruption cases have been made and successfully prosecuted with much less evidence.”

The Clinton Foundation describes itself in the following way:

“Everywhere we go, we’re trying to work ourselves out of a job. Whether it’s improving global health, increasing opportunity for girls and women, reduce childhood obesity and preventable diseases, creating economic opportunity and growth, or helping communities address the effects of climate change, we keep score by the lives that are saved and improved.”

Despite its noble aims, though, the foundation is increasingly under investigation for possible corruption.

On its official website, the FBI lists “public corruption as the FBI’s top criminal priority.”

According to Jack Kelly, writing for RealClearPolitics:

The Clinton Foundation “received as much as $26.4 million in previously undisclosed payments” from corporations, foreign sources, and other groups, the Washington Post reported ten days ago.
That’s in addition to “millions” in foreign donations from the years 2010 to 2013 that were not reported until Reuters asked about them in April. Which were in addition to millions in foreign donations the Clinton Foundation acknowledged after the Washington Post asked about them in February.

Another intelligence source speaking to Fox News said, “The agents are investigating the possible intersection of Clinton Foundation donations, the dispensation of State Department contracts and whether regular processes were followed.”