One Sentence From Trump Just Set Off A Firestorm. His Response Took Everyone By Surprise.

The liberal gossip site Gawker set a trap for Donald Trump that was a year in the making — and this month he finally fell for it by retweeting something that sent his enemies wringing their hands in glee.

On the morning of Feb. 28 Trump jumped onto his Twitter account — as he so often does — and retweeted a quote a Twitter account named “ilduce2016” attributed to him. He retweeted it imagining he was retweeting one of his own quotes.

<tweet tweet-author="@realDonaldTrump" tweet-date="February 28, 2016">“@ilduce2016: “It is better to live one day as a lion than 100 years as a sheep.” – @realDonaldTrump #MakeAmericaGreatAgain“<tweet/>.

However, the tweet in question was actually a quote by WWII Italian dictator Benito Mussolini, and most decidedly not from Trump.

The Twitter account Trump retweeted was set up as a trap over a year ago by Gawker.com writer Ashley Feinberg. She set the social media account up to trap Trump in the hopes he’d retweet quotes from the WWII fascist, a leader who was eventually murdered by his own people after Germany fell and the Allies won the war.

Feinberg said she intended to show that Trump is essentially a fascist in his thinking.

In her post about the Tweet, Feinberg said, “In sending out that one little tweet, Donald Trump proved the point we had in mind when we created that bot: to show that Trump’s rhetoric is often indistinguishable from that of history’s most vainglorious and authoritarian fascist dictators — Benito Mussolini, specifically.”

“In fact, a lot of the founding father of fascism’s words sound like Trump-isms, so it’s hard to blame him for being confused,” the Gawker employee wrote.

Not long after Trump tweeted the famed fascist’s quote, NBC’s Chuck Todd asked the GOP frontrunner about the Twitter kerfuffle. “Did you know it was Mussolini?” Todd asked the real estate mogul.

“It’s okay to know it’s Mussolini,” Trump said in reply. “Mussolini was Mussolini. It’s okay to — it’s a very good quote, it’s a very interesting quote, and I saw — I know who said it. What difference does it make whether it’s Mussolini or somebody else?”

Chuck Todd was shocked. “Do you want to be associated with a fascist?“ he asked.

“No, I want to be associated with interesting quotes, and people,” Trump insisted, “I have almost 14 million people between Instagram and Facebook and Twitter and all of that  and we do interesting things. And I sent it out, and it certainly got your attention didn’t it?”