Glenn Beck Says Trump, ‘Alt Right’ Pose A Threat To Democracy.

Talk show host Glenn Beck, who since the appointment of Breitbart News executive Stephen Bannon as CEO of Donald Trump’s campaign has thrown restraint to the winds in denouncing the GOP presidential nominee, on Friday declared Trump was a threat to America’s democracy.

“Donald Trump is a dictator in the making,” said Beck, who said there were “too many disturbing things for me to dismiss on Donald Trump.”

Beck’s contention was that Trump is, in fact, appealing to the so-called alt-right — which Democratic candidate Hillary Clinton denounced Thursday — and is building a base there that Beck fears will be used to harm the nation.

Much of Beck’s ire was also directed at Bannon, who Beck on Wednesday called “a horrible, despicable human being.”

<tweet tweet-id="769292115914395649"><tweet/>.

However, some saw Beck’s comments as simply part of his long opposition to Trump.

<tweet tweet-id="769293030520000512"><tweet/>.

The rise of Bannon gave Beck new impetus to oppose Trump and to reach out to those who might normally oppose him politically.

He said he was “truly, gravely concerned about the direction of the country, and it is very important for conservatives or constitutionalists to stand up and let the left know, ‘Hey guys, we’re not all like that.'”

“We have concerns and there have to be some things we come together on, basic values and principles. Let’s not go into a chaos theory; that never goes well,” Beck said.

Beck, who supported Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, and virulently opposed Trump during the Republican presidential primaries, last week said Trump was seeking to start either a rebellious movement or a media empire.

“What’s going to happen is Donald Trump is going to make this look like a stolen election; he will divide us even more,” Beck said during a recent appearance on CNN. “He, with his alternate right, alt-right, kind of viewpoint. It will grow, it will metastasize.”

He continued, “There will be maybe 10 to 15 percent of the population that will just become virulent, and he will create possibly a third party.”

Beck said if Trump wins, he would impose a “South American dictatorship” if major war, civil unrest or economic instability were to take place with him in the White House.