Republican Medal Of Honor Winner Opens Up About Backing Clinton Over Trump.

Florent Groberg is a former U.S. Army captain and Medal of Honor winner who is a lifelong Republican.

But Thursday night at the Democratic National Convention in Philadelphia, he spoke out in favor of Democrat nominee Hillary Clinton.

Groberg, 33, opened up to Decode DC about his decision, including why he will not be supporting Republican nominee Donald Trump.

“He has absolutely zero military experience. He has zero foreign policy experience,” he said.

Groberg then went on to explain what he likes about Clinton.

“For all of her faults that people claim she has — she has 40 years of experience in the political arena. She was the first lady, her husband was the president and she was also in charge of the State Department. So her coming in as commander in chief, this is not a grandiose new avenue that is putting the lives of millions of service members on the line or jeopardizing national security because she has no experience. She has experience,” he said.

Despite many people holding Clinton personally responsible for the deaths of Ambassador Chris Stevens and the others killed in the Benghazi attacks, Groberg says it is hard to blame any one person for that. He also says the email scandal, while troublesome, was dealt with appropriately in his view.

“The whole email (issue) doesn’t help, and I don’t understand how that happened and I agree that she should be held accountable. I do not believe that she should go to jail. [She] should have had a slap on the hand and I think she did,” he said.

While he does support Clinton, Groberg admits there is a faction of her party he does not see eye to eye with, most specifically the anti-war crowd who seem to largely be in the Bernie Sanders camp.

“Nobody is pro-war. Sometimes there’s just no other solution. You think you can sit at the table with people like ISIL and talk to them? No, that’s not possible. I don’t think anybody who takes the office of president wants to send our nation’s youth and citizens into a foreign zone to go fight,” he said.

Groberg spoke about what he perceives as the unrealistic expectations of Bernie Sanders’ supporters.

“The Bernie crowd, these young kids, they’ve never been put in a decision, the 99 percent of them, where the consequences could be life or death, where your family members are not going to come home. They have never been in a situation where your uncle gets killed, beheaded and chopped into pieces, like I have, from a terrorist organization. They live in a world where they believe that peace is a real thing. And I wish it were. I really, really wish it were,” he said.

Groberg concluded that idealism is nice, but sometimes realism takes over.

“All you have to do is look at history. We have been at war in some fashion forever. It’s almost human nature. I want to live my life in peace, but right now we have a mission and I do not believe that Clinton has ever mentioned that she is going to take our troops back overseas to fight more wars,” he said.