The Entire GOP Race Is Hinging On These 2 States… Here’s Why.

The Washington Post reported on Monday, based on the current delegates count, if Sen. Marco Rubio wins his home state of Florida and Gov. John Kasich wins his home state of Ohio, the GOP nominee will almost certainly be decided at the convention in July.

The current delegate count is Donald Trump 384, Sen. Ted Cruz 300, Rubio 151, and Kasich 37. To secure the GOP nomination during the primaries, a candidate must win 1,237 delegates. There are currently 1,585 delegates outstanding.

Going into Tuesday’s contests in Michigan, Mississippi, Idaho and Hawaii, Trump must win 53 percent of the remaining delegates, Cruz 59 percent, Rubio 68 percent, and Kasich 76 percent.

Both Florida, 99 delegates, and Ohio, 66 delegates, are winner-take-all. The most recent polling in Florida shows Rubio closing the gap to pull within 5 points of Trump (35-30), after trailing by double digits only a few weeks ago. The Florida senator made a similar closing days charge in Virginia, causing that race to be too close to call for much of Super Tuesday election night before losing narrowly to Trump.

Meanwhile in Ohio, Kasich has also been surging and has pulled within 4 points of the GOP frontrunner, according to the Real Clear Politics average of recent polls.

<tweet tweet-author="@mmurraypolitics" tweet-date="March 7, 2016">The delegate math: Why Florida and Ohio are so important to Trump<tweet/>.

The Post’s Chris Cillizza writes: “Should Rubio win Florida and Kasich win Ohio, it’s a near-certainty that no candidate will come close to getting the required number of delegates to win the nomination. Trump remains the only one with an even-marginally viable path, but he would need to win 69 percent of the remaining delegates after March 15 if he loses Ohio and Florida. Mathematically possible but practically very difficult.”

As reported by Western Journalism, there are 150 delegates at stake in Tuesday night’s contests in Michigan, Mississippi, Idaho, and Hawaii. Based on current polling, Trump is looking to have a good night, though all the states allocate delegates proportionally, so the overall standings may not change significantly.