Reagan’s Daughter Makes Strong Statement About Trump Speech.

The drumbeat of high-profile names from the GOP’s past denouncing Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump grew louder Wednesday as Patti Davis, Ronald Reagan’s daughter, attacked Trump for comments made this week about Hillary Clinton and the Second Amendment.

On Tuesday, during a campaign rally, Trump said the Democratic presidential nominee could pose a threat to gun rights in America.

“Hillary wants to abolish — essentially abolish the Second Amendment. By the way, if she gets to pick, if she gets to pick her judges, nothing you can do, folks,” Trump said. “Although the Second Amendment people, maybe there is, I don’t know.”

Some accused Trump of inciting violence against Clinton.

Davis, a longtime liberal, lashed out at the GOP nominee on Facebook, telling Trump that whatever he meant, words have the power to inspire actions.

In her post, she reminded Trump of the actions of John Hinckley Jr., who shot and wounded President Reagan in 1981.

“I am the daughter of a man who was shot by someone who got his inspiration from a movie, someone who believed if he killed the President the actress from that movie would notice him,” she wrote.

Davis made it clear that she did not view the comment in isolation.

“Your glib and horrifying comment about ‘Second Amendment people’ was heard around the world. It was heard by sane and decent people who shudder at your fondness for verbal violence. It was heard by your supporters, many of whom gleefully and angrily yell, ‘Lock her up!’ at your rallies,” she posted.

She said Trump’s words could be twisted into action.

“It was heard by the person sitting alone in a room, locked in his own dark fantasies, who sees unbridled violence as a way to make his mark in the world, and is just looking for ideas,” she added.

Earlier in the political season, Davis, who was estranged from her father during his presidency, was critical of all the candidates seeking the GOP nomination.

” … they are so not like him,” she said in December. “My father would be so appalled at what’s going on — he would be so appalled at these candidates. I don’t think he would be a Republican. If another Ronald Reagan came along right now, I don’t think the Republican Party would accept him.”