Anthony Weiner Receives More Bad News After Separation From Wife Huma Abedin.

Former Democratic congressman Anthony Weiner had a rough day Monday.

First his wife, longtime Hillary Clinton aide Huma Abedin, announced they were separated after the New York Post revealed Weiner had been sexting another woman.

If the breakup of his marriage wasn’t bad enough, Weiner also lost two jobs Monday: one as contributor to the Television channel NY1, and the other as a columnist for the New York Daily News.

“Anthony Weiner is on indefinite leave from the station,” a NY1 representative said in a statement.

“[W]e won’t be running his columns in the future,” Daily News opinion editor Josh Greenman told The Daily Beast in an email.

Business Insider also commented on Weiner’s future as a contributor with the company, but acknowledged it had no formal relationship to dissolve.

“We are sorry to hear about the dissolution of the Weiners’ marriage, and we wish them all the best,” the company said in a statement. “We do not a have formal contributor relationship with Mr. Weiner, but we and our readers always enjoy his columns.”

<tweet tweet-id="770390718095486977"><tweet/>.

These are just the latest high-profile jobs Weiner has lost due to extramarital activity that eventually became public.

In 2011, he resigned from Congress after accidentally tweeting a public crotch-shot that was intended for someone other that his wife. He blamed the incident on hackers but later fessed up to sending risqué pictures to multiple women.

The second incident occurred when he was caught in another sexting exchange with porn star Sydney Leathers. Weiner wrote under the pseudonym “Carlos Danger,” but it didn’t do him any good, as he was eventually discovered. As a consequence he lost his job with the public relations firm MWW.

“The continuous noise from these parties has caused both Anthony and the MWW team to have to deal with many inflammatory, insulting and false stories,” MWW said in a September 2015 statement. “To Anthony’s credit, he understands that his presence here has created noise and distraction that just isn’t helpful, and at the same time, he has other interests that he wishes to pursue.”

It appears three sexting scandals was one too many for Abedin.

“After long and painful consideration and work on my marriage, I have made the decision to separate from my husband. Anthony and I remain devoted to doing what is best for our son, who is the light of our life. During this difficult time, I ask for respect for our privacy,” Abedin said.

A documentary titled Weiner is set to be released on Showtime with a premiere on Oct. 22. In light of the latest information, a postscript might be added to the film in order to keep it up to date.