Hollywood Actor Who Endorsed Ted Cruz Just Called Hillary 3 Word Name That’ll Make Her CRINGE.

Actor Clint Howard admits his choice for president is “not the most handsome man in the field,” but is a person he can admire. Democrat candidate Hillary Clinton also lacks in the looks department, said Howard, but her character and politics do not make up for it.

Howard, the younger and far more politically conservative brother of Hollywood legend Ron Howard, endorsed Republican presidential candidate Sen. Ted Cruz in November. He said Cruz “has courage to fight and take the flak from people who want to undermine those ideas. He’s not only unafraid, he’s anxious to engage these people in a dialogue that puts truth and common sense into the conversation.”

Howard, who has been making movies since 1961 and who had roles in “How the Grinch Stole Christmas,” “Apollo 13,” and “Austin Powers: The Spy Who Shagged Me,” had no such praise for Clinton.

“When they look at her I believe what they’re going to see is a photograph of a bitter old grandma,” Howard said recently. “Eight years ago I don’t believe that would have been the narrative. But I don’t think she can help it. I don’t think she can put on enough makeup to change people’s perception of her.”

Howard continued his scathing remarks.

“Eight years ago she was the presumed Democratic nominee, and a fellow came along and, as they say in baseball, he boat-raced her. She was winning! And all of a sudden she got left in his wake. She’s only gotten older, and the sadness of looks being a part of it … I’m not sure America’s going to elect a bitter old grandmother.”

However, he does see the need for a conservative hand at the helm.

“There are a couple of fundamental points about the Constitution and liberty, both what it means to have it and what it means to live with it,” Howard said. “(Cruz) has those values that I appreciate. I would like to see the country turn towards a conservative direction, under conservative leadership.”