After Trump Heard What His Fox News Nemesis Just Said, He Instantly Unleashes On Twitter.

Conservative columnist and Fox News contributor George Will reignited his feud with Donald Trump this week after writing a scathing Washington Post op-ed that targeted the 2016 presidential candidate.

Citing last week’s Paris attack as a wake-up call for the American people and their “reveries about treating the presidency as an entry-level job,” Will urged the Republican electorate to abandon all outsider candidates, Donald Trump in particular.

“The eruption of war in the capital of a NATO ally is a reminder that the nominating process will potentially send a commander in chief to Washington. This might, and should, hasten the eclipse of Carly Fiorina, Ben Carson and especially Donald Trump,” Will wrote.

From Donald Trump’s “coarse, vulgar, and nasty 95-minute effusion” in Iowa last week to his call for a federal “deportation force,” Will described Trump as a “caricature of democracy’s most embarrassing possibilities” and “stupendously un-conservative.”

Instead, Will called for Republicans to throw their support behind Chris Christie, whom he describes as having “a prosecutor’s bearing and a governor’s executive temperament.” While Will acknowledges Trump’s appeal as a “forceful persona,” he sees Christie as sharing this characteristic, but also being tempered by experience and sound judgement.

In contrast to Trump in Iowa, Will had nothing but praise for Christie’s Nov. 14 speech at the Sunshine Summit in Orlando, Florida, which Will claims affirmed “the foundational conservative belief in the indispensability, the sovereignty, and the prerogatives of nationhood.”

With the heightened security concerns following the Paris terrorist attacks, Will believes Christie has been presented with an opportunity to become the Republican nominee due to his background dealing with security concerns as New Jersey Governor. In particular, Will wrote, Christie can challenge Hillary Clinton, whose time as secretary of state arguably made the world less safe and has very little credibility in this area.

Trump took to Twitter to fire back at George Will:

<tweet tweet-id="667366217527767040"><tweet/>.

<tweet tweet-id="667366321999495168"><tweet/>.

<tweet tweet-id="667369690226958336"><tweet/>.

To anyone who has been following the 2016 Republican nomination process, Trump’s response comes as no surprise, since he’s gained a reputation for being brash.

Despite George Will’s call to abandon Trump, he still remains at the top of the Republican presidential pack with 24.6 percent, according to a recent poll by RealClearPolitics. Only time will tell if his staying power will last through the nomination process.