Woman Reveals Stunning Thing Trump Did To Her After Her Dad Killed Himself.

Betsy Sharp of Burke County, Georgia, knows Donald Trump in a way few other Americans know the Republican presidential candidate whose fiery rhetoric on the campaign trail has him often labeled brash and bellicose.

To Sharp, Trump is the “kind-hearted and caring” man who saved her family’s farm back in 1986 in the wake of her father’s suicide. On Tuesday, she attended a Trump rally in North Augusta, S.C., and reconnected with Trump, having him autograph a picture taken back in 1986 that showed Trump and her mother burning the mortgage to the farm.

In February of 1986, Leonard Dozier Hill III was going to lose to the bank the farm that had been in his family for three generations. He was a desperate man who took his own life hoping the insurance proceeds would allow the family to hold onto their land. Unfortunately, the policy would not pay out in cases of suicide. The plight of a farmer killing himself to save his land drew national media attention, and the interest of an even-then-famous New York City entrepreneur named Donald Trump.

“Today my brother lives on the farm and he has one of his daughters, they have built a house. But if it wasn’t for his generosity, his kind heart – he didn’t know us from Burke County at all,” Sharp said. “And he saw the story and he couldn’t believe that the bank was forcing my father to go to that depth.”

“What I want you all to know is how kind-hearted and caring he is. He cares about America and he cares about farmers. He cares about veterans. He truly wants to make America great again, and I think if we help him, we can get there,” she said.

Trump recalled Leonard Hill’s widow, Anita, who he helped, as “a great woman, and passed away, but passed away happy. I love to do things; I do a lot of that. Its good to do things like that for people. It’s nice. It makes you feel good.”

“She was having a very tough time, and I read about it, and I paid off her mortgage – big deal, right?” Trump said.

Trump told the crowd that helping save the farm was more work than he expected.

“I figured I could do it a lot cheaper than paying off the mortgage,” he said. “I found out the name of the bank. That was a mean banker, I want to tell you. I called up: ‘We’re gonna take you through hell, we’re gonna this, we’re gonna that.’ I couldn’t get the guy to cut! So I bought the mortgage and I said, ‘The hell with it.'”