Trump Supporter Screams 1 Controversial Word At Rally, Instantly Has Everyone’s Attention.

The vernacular of the rabid fans of Republican presidential Donald Trump, with all of its vulgarity, moved into the media spotlight again Monday after a woman at one of Trump’s rallies used a socially unacceptable word to describe rival Ted Cruz, a word Trump then repeated.

Trump was contrasting his position on waterboarding with that of Sen. Cruz when the woman shouted out an insult aimed at Cruz.

“She just said a terrible thing,” Trump said sarcastically. He asked the woman to raise her voice and say the word louder.

“You know what she said? Shout it out, ’cause I don’t want to,” Trump continued. “OK, you’re not allowed to say – and I never expect to hear that from you again – she said … he’s a p–sy.”

Trump then threw up his hands in mock exasperation at the woman’s derisive comment.

“That’s terrible, terrible,” Trump said. A cascade of laughter and cheers erupted from the audience.

“What kind of people do I have here?” Trump asked, looking far from displeased. “What do I have?”

He then spoke in a mock-stern voice to the woman.

“So I just want to tell you right now, ma’am, you’re reprimanded, okay?” Trump said.

He then asked the buzzing crowd, “Can she stay? Can she stay?”

They said she could.

“For the press, this is a serious reprimand,” Trump said.

Nevertheless, the incident made waves in the media.

“… his reiteration of a vulgarity shouted by a female supporter in the Verizon Center on Monday evening was likely the first time in American history that a major presidential candidate used a phrase widely considered obscene in a televised rally, let alone used the word to refer to his nearest competitor for public office,” wrote Ben Jacobs in The Guardian.

The woman who started it all identified herself to CNN as a 52-year-old Salem, N.H., resident named Caroline.

“He truly cares about the American people,” she said of Trump.

She said she had no plans to yell anything about anyone, but when Trump mentioned Cruz, it just happened.

“It just came out of my mouth,” she said. “It wasn’t like I thought about it.”

After she blurted it out, she said, “Everybody behind me was just patting me on the back.”

She also said she knew Trump’s reprimand was in fun.