‘Time’ Just Announced Its ‘Person Of The Year’ And One Thing Was Immediately Obvious.

Time Magazine chose German Chancellor Angela Merkel as its “Person of the Year” for 2015.

<tweet tweet-id="674577084669407232"><tweet/>.

Merkel was chosen first over three other individuals and one group. Second on the list was ISIS leader Abu Bakr al-Baghadi. Third was Donald Trump. Fourth was the Black Lives Matter group. And rounding out the top five was Iranian President Hassan Rouhani.

Every December, Time announces who it believes deserves the distinguished title. CBS reported that the decision to tap Merkel as the Person of the Year was made because Merkel had led her country out of three crises during 2015. Sam Jacobs, Time’s Assistant Managing Editor, explained to CBS why Merkel was selected above all the others.

Jacobs called Merkel “The Chancellor of the Free World.” Jacobs credited Merkel with holding “the entire continent together” through the immigration crisis, the troubles in the Eurozone, and the fears over terrorism. Donald Trump was placed on the short list because of the “impact,” Jacobs said, that he’s had on the news this year. Trump was not chosen as the Person of the Year because Time does not and has never chosen a presidential candidate for this. Jacobs explained that the Person of the Year title is given to the person who has had the greatest impact on the news, “for good or for ill.”

Time created a poll on its website to survey readers as to who they would like to see as person of the year. Bernie Sanders was the person overwhelmingly selected by Time’s readers. Jacobs said that the editors’ email boxes were “flooded” with messages of support for Sanders, but Sanders did not make the short list. “Like him or not, Donald Trump has dictated what our politics has looked like,” Jacobs said, adding that Sanders did not rise above Trump’s news-making status.

Jacobs explained that the Black Lives Matter movement was chosen to be placed on the short list because of the impact that the BLM movement has had on college campuses and in cities all across the country. Jacobs explained that all anyone has to do is ask any police chief or college president what is dictating policy changes, and that the BLM group has made the most significant impact in those realms.

Merkel’s selection as Time’s person of the year has already gotten criticism from German conservatives. A German news organization called “The Local” cited that Merkel’s fall in approval ratings in 2015 is attributed to her leadership–specifically her decision to allow 1 million refugees into Germany without reservation, a move that has angered Germans across the country. One reader even noted that Adolph Hitler was chosen as Time’s Person of the Year in 1938.